Understanding and exploiting C–H bond activation
The selective transformation of ubiquitous but inert C–H bonds to other functional groups has far-reaching practical implications, ranging from more efficient strategies for fine chemical synthesis to the replacement of current petrochemical feedstocks by less expensive and more readily available alkanes. The past twenty years have seen many examples of C–H bond activation at transition-metal centres, often under remarkably mild conditions and with high selectivity. Although profitable practical applications have not yet been developed, our understanding of how these organometallic reactions occur, and what their inherent advantages and limitations for practical alkane conversion are, has progressed considerably. In fact, the recent development of promising catalytic systems highlights the potential of organometallic chemistry for useful C–H bond activation strategies that will ultimately allow us to exploit Earth's alkane resources more efficiently and cleanly.
Main
Alkanes, or saturated hydrocarbons, are major constituents of natural gas and petroleum, but there are very few practical processes for converting them directly to more valuable products. The reason for this difficulty is alluded to by their other name, ‘paraffin’ (meaning ‘not enough affinity’): alkanes are relatively inert. This chemical inertness arises from the constituent atoms of alkanes all being held together by strong and localized C–C and C–H bonds, so that the molecules have no empty orbitals of low energy or filled orbitals of high energy that could readily participate in a chemical reaction, as is the case with unsaturated hydrocarbons such as olefins and alkynes.
Alkanes do react at high temperatures, as encountered in combustion, but such reactions are not readily controllable and usually proceed to the thermodynamically stable and economically unattractive products, carbon dioxide and water. The currently prevalent use of alkanes in combustion applications exploits their energy content, but not their considerable potential as valuable precursors for more important and expensive chemicals. Although cracking and thermal dehydrogenation convert alkanes to valuable olefins, these processes require high temperatures and are energy intensive. Similarly, although alkanes can be induced to react by exposure to highly reactive species such as superacids or free radicals, these reactive species are usually demanding and expensive to make, and offer little control over product selectivity.
A variety of enzymes efficiently and selectively catalyse alkane oxidation at physiological temperatures and pressures, and the direct use of biological organisms for industrial alkane conversion under such benign conditions is possible in principle. But in practice, these approaches may be primarily applicable to the small-scale production of specialized chemicals, given that large-scale bioprocesses for converting alkane resources seem to be problematic1. However, despite their practical limitations, enzymatic alkane transformations are much studied, to understand the underlying reaction mechanisms and guide the design of synthetic catalysts mimicking the function, efficiency and selectivity of their biological counterparts. Enzymatic and enzyme-mimetic alkane transformations are beyond the scope of the present review, but further information and bibliographies can be found in recent reviews2,3.
Because it is difficult to achieve selective transformations under forcing conditions, most important petrochemicals, especially oxygenates such as alcohols, aldehydes and carboxylic acids, are produced from unsaturated hydrocarbons. The primary unsaturated starting materials are olefins, in turn obtained from alkanes by fairly inefficient processes. Milder and better-controlled direct conversions of alkanes into olefins may thus offer large economic benefits. Alkane chemistry could also improve the utilization of methane, the principal component of natural gas. Many of the world's established natural gas resource locations are remote, in sites where there is little or no local demand, such as the north slope of Alaska. Exploitation of such resources is impeded by the high cost of both gas transportation and current methods for converting hydrocarbon gas into more readily transportable liquid4. The available conversion methods are indirect, involving production of synthesis gas (carbon monoxide and hydrogen), followed by conversion to the desired product. Developing efficient strategies for the direct conversion of methane to methanol or other liquid fuels or chemicals could thus significantly improve methane utilization.
The controlled activation of small, relatively inert molecules has been a ubiquitous theme in transition metal chemistry since its renaissance began in the late 1950s. Practitioners of this art are thus well placed to address the alkane activation problem. To date, binding to metal centres has resulted in altered and/or enhanced reactivity in a variety of molecules, through associated changes in the relative energies of their orbitals or their polarity. Olefins and carbon monoxide, for example, are rendered more susceptible to nucleophilic attack upon coordination to a metal centre5, whereas coordinated dioxygen frequently reacts with electrophiles6. Even dinitrogen, the classic inert small molecule, can be thus activated and induced to partake in chemical transformations7. In principle, it should be possible to similarly activate the inert C–H bonds of alkanes, but the examples just mentioned all involve small molecules with lone electron pairs and/or π orbitals that can interact with empty orbitals of the metal centres; alkanes possess neither of these.
Indeed, in most pre-1980s examples of C–H bonds reacting at transition-metal centres, reactions proceed successfully only if they are assisted through participation of the π orbitals of aromatic C–H bonds8 (equation (1)) or involve intramolecular reactions, where the group containing the C–H bond to be activated is already attached to the metal9 (equation (2)). Often both effects contribute10 (equation (3)).
where hν implies light energy and Δ implies heat energy. Functional groups are abbreviated as follows: Ph, phenyl; Et, ethyl; Me, methyl.
If such assistance were in fact required, activation of aliphatic C–H bonds at transition-metal centres would not be a good strategy for catalytic alkane conversion. However, during the 1970s, examples of significant interaction between a metal centre and an alkane C–H bond suggested that this difficulty might have been overestimated. For example, some metal complexes were known to catalyse alkane reactions such as hydrogen–deuterium (H–D) exchange or oxidation under relatively mild conditions11. Moreover, several cases of so-called agostic bonding were discovered12, wherein a C–H bond of an already coordinated ligand forms an additional bond to the metal (see Fig. 1 for a typical example13).
Figure 1: An example of agostic bonding.
The electron pair of a β-C–H bond from a coordinated ethyl group interacts with a vacant orbital on Ti (ref. 13).
Full size image
These observations suggested that alkane activation should be possible. In fact, chemists realized that previous failures to achieve it might not have been due to unreactivity at all: C–H activation might take place, but yield an organometallic product that is thermodynamically unstable and thus undetectable14. This interpretation proved to be correct. Using systems designed to produce stable products, two groups demonstrated intermolecular alkane activation in 1982 (refs 15, 16) (one reaction is shown in equation (4)), and a large number of other examples quickly followed. (ref. 17 provides a thorough survey of these developments and further references.)
Challenges for practical alkane conversion
Although the accomplishments of C–H activation mentioned so far afford new organometallic derivatives, the development of practical alkane conversion strategies poses further, and perhaps more difficult, challenges. One is activity, as only reactions proceeding at an adequate rate will be useful. Another is selectivity, which is challenging for two reasons. First, the desired product must not have any functional group that reacts more readily with the metal centre than the alkane starting material. In this regard, organometallic activation appears promising: as strikingly illustrated by the example in equation (5) an ‘inert’ C–H bond is activated by a metal-centred reagent, even though the nearby epoxide linkage is far more reactive under most conditions18
where Cp* is pentamethylcyclopentadienyl.
A second and more general problem with achieving selectivity arises from the relative reactivity of different C–H bonds. Most existing transformations of alkane C–H bonds involve oxidation, whether in the gas phase, over metal-oxide catalysts at high temperature, or in solution. These reactions are dominated by radical pathways involving hydrogen-atom removal; the reactivity of such processes tends to correlate with C–H bond strength19. The terminal positions of alkanes will therefore be the least reactive, yet terminally functionalized alkanes are often the most desirable products, as exemplified by the role of terminal alcohols in detergents. Furthermore, C–H bonds adjacent to functional groups in oxidized products, such as alcohols and aldehydes, are more reactive than the C–H bond of the original alkane; transformations of alkanes proceeding via radical pathways will thus be subject to an inherent upper limit on the product yield that can be obtained. The relative reactivity for activating different C–H bonds is hence a crucial issue.
Finally, thermodynamics presents perhaps the highest hurdle to a net overall alkane conversion. Transformations such as dehydrogenation (equation (6)) and carbonylation (equation (7)) should readily be accomplished at centres that activate C–H bonds, but both of these reactions are thermodynamically uphill anywhere near room temperature. The addition of a C–H bond across an olefin, as in (equation (8)), is favourable, but serves only to produce another alkane; such a transformation will generally be of little use. (In cases where C–H activation is used to add arenes across a C–C multiple bond20,21,22, the process can potentially yield valuable substituted aromatic products.)
where R and R′ indicate different alkyl groups.
The partial oxidation of alkanes to alcohols, aldehydes, acids and other oxygenates is, in contrast to the above reactions, thermodynamically favoured and also leads to highly desirable products. However, many of the known C–H activating centres are highly sensitive to O2 and other oxidants.
Can the demands of thermodynamics and chemical compatibility, along with activity and selectivity requirements, all be satisfied simultaneously? To answer this question, we now consider the types of C–H activation reactions at metal centres and their underlying mechanisms.
Classification of reactions
The scope of this review is limited to C–H activation at metal centres, so we restrict our discussion to reactions that have clearly been shown to involve bond formation between a metal and an alkane carbon. The reactions are conveniently classified according to their overall stoichiometry. There are four classes involving the formation of stable organometallic species, and two of these occur quite commonly, while the other two are rare. The fifth class of activation reactions involves transient generation of organometallic species as reaction intermediates.
Oxidative addition
Oxidative addition reactions are typical for electron-rich, low-valent complexes of the ‘late’ transition metals found towards the right side of the periodic table—Re, Fe, Ru, Os, Rh, Ir, Pt. In this reaction type, illustrated in equation (9), the reactive species [LnMx] is coordinatively unsaturated and hence almost always unstable; it is therefore generated in situ by thermal or photochemical decomposition of a suitable precursor. A typical precursor is (η5-C5Me5)-(PMe3)IrIIIH2 (see equation (4)), which loses H2 under photoirradiation to give, as reactive species [LnMx], the (unobserved) intermediate [(η5-C5Me5)(PMe3)IrI](ref. 15).
Sigma-bond metathesis
Alkyl or hydride complexes of ‘early’ transition metals with d0 electronic configurations may undergo the reversible reaction of equation (10a) (refs 23, 24). These metals are most commonly from group 3 of the periodic table (Sc, lanthanides and actinides), but some examples involving metals of groups 4 and 5 are also known25.
Most commonly R and R′ are both alkyl groups, in which case the reaction only amounts to the interchange of alkyl fragments, rather than net alkane activation. The making and breaking of C–C single bonds through the alternative exchange (equation (10b)) is unfortunately not observed, whereas some examples of interconversion of dihydrogen and metal alkyl with alkane and metal hydride (equation (10c)) are known26,27.
Metalloradical activation
Rhodium(II) porphyrin complexes exist in a monomer–dimer equilibrium and can reversibly break alkane C–H bonds, with attachment of the two fragments to two separate rhodium(II) porphyrin complexes (see equation (11)). Methane is the most reactive hydrocarbon for this class of reaction. Regarding the underlying mechanism, the involvement of free alkyl radicals, generated through the abstraction of a hydrogen atom from methane by the Rh centre, might at first seem attractive. But the low Rh–H bond strength (around 60 kcal mol-1 compared to the 105 kcal mol-1 C–H bond of methane) suggests that such a step would be prohibitively endothermic, in agreement with inferences from experimental observations28,29.
where (por) is porphyrin.
1,2-addition
1,2-addition reactions involve the addition of an alkane to a metal-nonmetal double bond. An example of methane addition across a Zr–N double bond (equation (12)) has been reported30, while a related system activates benzene but not methane31. Although alkane additions across M = N and M = C double bonds of other early and middle transition-metal centres32,33,34 are also known, the scope of this type of reaction and its potential for alkane functionalization remain unclear.
Electrophilic activation
Certain reactions that lead directly to functionalized alkanes, rather than observable organometallic species (although their participation as intermediates is strongly indicated), have been classified as electrophilic activation reactions. This type of reaction is illustrated in equation (13) where [Mx+2] is a late- or a post-transition metal (Pd2+, Pt2+ and/or Pt4+, Hg2+, Tl3 +), usually in a strongly polar medium such as water or an anhydrous strong acid35. The presumed organometallic intermediate [LnMx+2(R)(X)] involved in the transformation would be formed as indicated in equation (14a), that is, through substitution of a metal for a proton—hence the term ‘electrophilic’ activation. Equation (14b) shows a possible route from the intermediate to the product.
Alkane activation mechanisms
While most of our understanding of alkane activation mechanisms has been obtained from studies of oxidative addition reactions, it seems likely that all C–H activations begin with the formation of an intermediate alkane complex; the subsequent C–H bond cleavage step will then differ from one class to another.
The initial interaction
The existence of stable agostic complexes with C–H bonds coordinated to a metal centre (see above) suggested that C–H bond activation might involve the initial formation of a so-called ‘sigma complex’, in which a metal centre interacts with the electron pair forming the C–H σ-bond36. Direct analogy with agostic species suggests that of the possible sigma-complex structures shown in Fig. 2, structure a is the most probable one. However, theoretical calculations and mechanistic considerations suggest a range of other possible structures as well36. No stable sigma complexes have yet been isolated, but a substantial body of evidence suggests that they do exist.
Figure 2: Possible structures of sigma complexes.
a, The simplest structure, analogous to that observed in agostic complexes. b, A ‘dihapto’ structure with two coordinated C–H bonds, suggested by theoretical calculations. c, A possible intermediate in a sigma-bond metathesis reaction. d, The proposed transition state (‡) for metalloradical C–H activation. e, A possible intermediate in a 1,2-addition reaction.
Full size image
For example, vibrational spectroscopic signatures detected both in frozen matrices and in solution have been assigned to sigma complexes generated by flash photolysis of a metal carbonyl in the presence of an alkane. In these experiments, typically only the C–O stretching bands are detected and the assignment is thus not conclusive. However, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) examination of the longest-lived of these suspected sigma complexes, CpRe(CO)2(RH) (see also equation (15)), revealed a high-field signal characteristic of a C–H–M interaction37.
where Cp is (η5-C5H5).
The CpRe(CO)2(RH) sigma complex does not proceed to form a stable C–H oxidative addition product, but vibrational spectroscopic evidence for the transient presence of sigma complexes has also been obtained in true C–H activating systems. For example, photolysis of Cp*Rh(CO)2 in a mixture of alkane and liquid inert gas (xenon or krypton) yields two successive metastable intermediates. The first intermediate is an inert gas complex, Cp*(CO)Rh(Kr or Xe), followed by formation of the alkane complex Cp*(CO)Rh(RH), which subsequently undergoes C–H bond cleavage to give the final product (Fig. 3)38,39.
Figure 3: Pathway for oxidative addition of an alkane.
The pathway has been inferred from time-resolved infrared spectroscopy observations38,39. After photolytic expulsion of a carbonyl ligand from the organometallic complex, equilibrium between an inert gas complex and an alkane complex is rapidly established; the latter undergoes a slower C–H bond cleavage to generate the final product. νco, wavenumber.
Full size image
Isotope exchange has provided further evidence for the role of metastable sigma complexes. The exchange process in equation (16), for example, has been observed in over a dozen systems, and in one case is fast even on the NMR timescale40.
Because it has been shown that complete loss of alkane from the metal centre and subsequent re-addition does not take place36, the exchange must proceed through an intermediate alkane complex, as suggested in equation (17).
The reductive elimination of alkanes often also exhibits inverse kinetic isotope effects; that is, the reaction is faster for M(D)(R) than for M(H)(R). Such observations suggest that the reductive elimination processes proceed through a late transition state that involves dissociation of the alkane sigma complex after the C–H bond (stronger than the M–H bond) has already formed.
Overall, even though alkane sigma complexes may remain elusive, compelling evidence for their existence has been obtained. In fact, the C–H–M interaction in these complexes is fairly strong (of the order of about 5–10 kcal mol-1)36, and sigma complexes seem to be important intermediates (not merely transition states) in C–H activation reactions.
Cleaving the C–H bond
Once an alkane complex has formed, the coordinated C–H bond is cleaved to yield the product. In the case of oxidative addition reactions (class 1), this step seems formally analogous to the interconversion between dihydrides and dihydrogen complexes, which is often extremely facile41. (This analogy is illustrated in equation (18)). In terms of electron counting—the organometallic chemist's favourite predictive tool—there is no obvious barrier to interconverting M(RH) with M(R)(H). However, as illustrated in Fig. 4, the bond cleavage step may not be straightforward because ligand dissociation often precedes ligand interconversion, even when not required by electron count considerations42.
Figure 4: Detailed mechanism of oxidative addition.
The alkane complex formed rapidly after CO elimination does not lead directly to C–H bond cleavage. Instead one of the three coordinated nitrogen centres of the Tp ligand dissociates on the picosecond timescale, generating a new intermediate. The subsequent C–H bond-breaking step occurs on the nanosecond timescale, followed by rapid recoordination of the third nitrogen to form the final product42.
Full size image
For the other classes of C–H activation reactions, direct information on the C–H bond cleavage mechanism is relatively sparse. But theoretical and experimental43 findings suggest that sigma bond metathesis reactions (class 2) and 1,2 addition reactions (class 4) proceed through an intermediate sigma complex (possible structures are shown in Fig. 2 as c and e respectively), which facilitate C–H cleavage by a 4-centre transition state. In the case of metalloradical activation of methane by Rh(porphyrin) complexes (class 3), the activation of a C–H bond seems to involve coordination to two metals, one to the C atom, the other to the H atom29 (species d in Fig. 2 shows the proposed structure of this sigma complex).
Reaction selectivity
Transition-metal centres preferentially activate terminal C–H bonds, in contrast to the selectivity seen in radical C–H cleavages. For example, the reaction shown in equation (19) gives 100% primary alkyl for M = Rh (ref. 44), and 70–80% (depending on alkyl chain length) for M = Ir (ref. 45).
The different reactivities of different alkane species undergoing oxidative addition to a photolytically activated rhodium carbonyl complex (the reaction shown in Fig. 3) suggest that less substituted positions will be more reactive in the C–H bond activation step. But the opposite trend seems to hold, at least in some cases, for the sigma-complex formation step46. Thus the overall selectivity of alkane activation reactions may well exhibit a complex dependence on competing factors, with the preferences, relative rates and reversibilities of individual steps all having the potential to exert an influence.
Towards practical applications
Mechanistic insight into the fundamental processes and interactions controlling alkane activation and conversion will guide the development of catalysts that are compatible with thermodynamic and economic constraints, yet exhibit the activity and selectivity necessary for practical applications. Although systems suitable for practical use have not yet been developed, several promising examples point the way towards approaches that may well prove successful.
Oxidation via electrophilic activation
Net alkane oxidation is often achieved through electrophilic activation (reaction class 5 above) by oxidation-tolerant complexes. The earliest example is the platinum chemistry discovered by Shilov and co-workers47 (equation (20)).
The reaction sequence for this system (Fig. 5) shows that although the overall conversion is catalytic in Pt(II), it requires stoichiometric amounts of Pt(IV) and is thus impractical. Moreover, the catalytic species are not indefinitely stable in solution under reaction conditions and eventually precipitate as metallic platinum, owing in part to the fact that the Pt(II)–Pt(0) redox potential is very close to that of the Pt(IV)–Pt(II) couple (ref. 48 and references cited therein).
Figure 5: Mechanism of methane oxidation in the Shilov system48.
In step 1, Pt(II) effectively replaces a proton to yield a methyl–Pt(II) complex. In step 2, [PtCl6]2- oxidizes the complex by electron transfer to a methyl–Pt(IV) species, which undergoes nucleophilic attack at the C–Pt bond in step 3, liberating methanol and regenerating the Pt(II) catalyst.
Full size image
Despite its practical limitations, this system and model analogues have revealed interesting and potentially useful features, including nonradical selectivity patterns similar to those found in well-characterized C–H activation systems. However, selectivities in this system are generally not quite as high as in the model analogues. For example, pentane is converted to n-pentyl chloride with 56% terminal selectivity49; as noted earlier, oxidative addition reactions typically achieve terminal selectivities of 70–100%. Ethanol oxidation by platinum complexes exhibits a particularly unusual selectivity pattern, with functionalization at the methyl group yielding significant amounts of ethylene glycol and 2-chloroethanol50; virtually all other known oxidation methods oxidize the alcohol function only. Ethylene glycol can even be obtained from ethane by this route51.
Another promising feature of the platinum chemistry is the fact that the key oxidation step (the second step in Fig. 5) involves electron transfer rather than alkyl-group transfer48. If oxidation had required alkyl-group transfer, Pt(IV) would seem an obligatory stoichiometric oxidant for the conversion, thus rendering the overall process prohibitively expensive. Given that oxidation is achieved through electron transfer, Pt(IV) could in principle be replaced by a cheaper and more practical oxidant. Indeed, alkyl groups made soluble in water as sulphonic acids have been oxidized to alcohols using either electrochemical oxidation52, or O2 in combination with heteropoly acids53 or copper salts54. In these modified processes, the involvement of platinum is catalytic, but so far only a modest number of turnovers has been achieved.
Similarly promising is successful C–H activation under very mild conditions by ligand-substituted Pt(II) complexes55,56, generally of the form [(N–N)Pt(CH3)(solv)]+, where N–N is a bidentate nitrogen-centred ligand and ‘solv’ is a weakly coordinating solvent (equation (21)).
where solv is NC5F5 or CF3CH2OH.
Moreover, platinum(II) complexes closely related to those formed in equation (21) have been successfully oxidized by O2, again under mild conditions (equation (22))57.
These findings, in combination, suggest that it might be possible to develop a Pt(II) complex that is stabilized against reduction to Pt metal by strongly bound ligands, and capable of activating alkanes and catalysing their oxidation to alcohols by O2. Figure 6 outlines the sequence of reaction steps involved in such a catalytic alkane oxidation scheme. Although each individual step in this scheme has been realized with at least one platinum complex, a single complex accomplishing all four steps and capable of closing this catalytic cycle has not yet been found.
Figure 6: Hypothetical sequence for alkane oxidation to alcohol by O2 and catalysed by a Pt(II) complex.
The four individual steps—electrophilic activation of alkane at Pt(II), oxidation of RPt(II) to RPt(IV) by O2, nucleophilic cleavage of the R–Pt bond to form ROH, and ligand exchange to regenerate the original Pt(II) species—have all been demonstrated in one or more cases, but a complex that effects all four steps has not yet been developed.
Full size image
Oxidation of methane by sulphuric acid
From a practical perspective, perhaps the most impressive accomplishment to date is the oxidation of methane to methyl bisulphate by sulphuric acid, catalysed by a Pt(II) complex58. The reaction appears to be an example of electrophilic functionalization, and the proposed mechanism (Fig. 7a) is closely related to the chemistry discussed above in ‘Oxidation via electrophilic activation’. In addition, the organometallic complex used in this system is remarkably stable under the reaction conditions used: the ligand is not oxidized, and there is no platinum metal formation. The absence of metal precipitation is a thermodynamic effect: the combination of the chosen ligand and hot sulphuric acid can dissolve platinum metal. A second improvement is the fact that product can be obtained with up to 90% selectivity. This feature is in part due to the protective power of the bisulphate group: to achieve the observed yield, the relative reactivity of methane versus methyl bisulphate must be of the order of 100:1.
Figure 7: The Catalytica system for methane oxidation58.
a, Proposed mechanism for oxidation of methane by sulphuric acid, catalysed by Pt(II), by analogy to the mechanism of Fig. 5. b, A possible three-step sequence for methane conversion, consisting of (1) oxidation of methane to methyl bisulphate as in a; (2) hydrolysis of methyl bisulphate to methanol and sulphuric acid; (3) oxidation of SO2 produced in step (1) back to sulphuric acid. The overall process accomplishes the selective oxidation of methane to methanol by O2. Although all three steps are well established, it is not clear whether the process is economically viable.
Full size image
However, the high selectivity achieved comes at a price: the ‘protected’ product is of little direct use and would need to be separately converted to a more useful compound, such as methanol, using a scheme such as that shown in Fig. 7b. At least at present, such an integrated multistep process seems not to be economically competitive with the currently used technology, the indirect conversion of methane to methanol via synthesis gas.
Catalytic borylation of alkanes
If a metal-alkyl complex obtained through C–H activation could be transformed according to equation (23) into a functionalized alkane RX and a new ‘recyclable’ metal complex, in which the alkyl ligand has been replaced by a ligand Y (this might be an oxygen-centred ligand, or a halide), a useful process could be designed. But typically the M–Y bond is very stable, thus precluding closure of a catalytic cycle.
However, a first example of successful evolution of stoichiometric to catalytic functionalization using transition-metal boryl complexes has been reported. Initially, photolysis of the metal boryl complex Cp*W(CO)3(Bcat′) (where cat′ is 3,5-dimethylcatecholate) in the presence of alkanes RH was shown to produce RBcat′ in good yield, and with complete selectivity for terminal positions59. The same products were then generated catalytically, using a dimeric boron reagent such as (Bpin)2 (where pin is pinacolate) and Cp*Re(CO)3 as catalyst60. Photolysis is still needed in this system, but the photochemical energy input is not inherently required to overcome unfavourable thermodynamics of the overall reaction. Instead, the need simply reflects the difficulty in expelling a carbonyl ligand from the metal complex to make a vacant site available. Use of a more labile complex as catalyst should thus allow the transformation under strictly thermal activation. Indeed, Rh(I) olefin complexes such as Cp*Rh(C2H4)2 or Cp*Rh(η4-C6Me6) catalyse the reaction shown in equation (24), producing RBpin in yields of up to 90% (based on (Bpin)2) and with the same total terminal selectivity observed in the stoichiometric versions of the reaction61. A related Ir-catalysed borylation of benzene has now also been reported62.
The high selectivity and the versatility of the alkylboranes precursors offer many intriguing application possibilities. However, the high cost of the borane reagents might preclude their use in large-scale processes; in contrast, smaller-scale uses certainly seem feasible.
Catalytic alkane dehydrogenation
As noted before, alkane dehydrogenation at low temperatures is thermodynamically uphill, but this problem may be overcome by providing a hydrogen acceptor to shift the equilibrium of the reaction63. Examples of such catalytic ‘transfer dehydrogenation’ have been reported, but most of the catalysts used exhibit poor thermal stability at the temperatures needed to achieve reasonable reaction rates. A new class of catalyst, so-called ‘pincer’ complexes, exhibit high thermal stability, making them useful for this transformation (equation (25))64.
The most effective ‘pincer’ catalyst, with R′ = CHMe2, catalyses the transfer dehydrogenation of cyclic and linear alkanes at 150 °C using hydrogen acceptors such as norbornene or t-butylethylene, at rates of up to 3–4 turnovers min-1 (ref. 65). Of particular practical interest is the initially high selectivity in converting linear alkanes to terminal alkenes: at early stages, α-olefin selectivities of more than 90% can be obtained. As the reaction proceeds, however, competing isomerization causes a gradual shift in product selectivity to the thermodynamically favoured internal olefins.
The high thermal stability of the ‘pincer’ complexes even permits dehydrogenation without use of an acceptor: refluxing the catalyst in a high-boiling alkane such as cyclooctane (boiling point 151 °C) or cyclodecane (boiling point 201 °C) allows the liberated H2 to escape and thus shifts the equilibrium of the reaction. This procedure gives the corresponding cycloalkenes; in the case of cyclodecane, product is formed at rates as high as nearly 8 turnovers min-1 (ref. 66). However, increasing concentrations of olefin product gradually inhibit the reaction. As a consequence, overall reaction rates are lower than those of the corresponding transfer dehydrogenations and isomerization becomes increasingly competitive and even dominant, thereby suppressing selectivity for terminal dehydrogenation.
The challenges ahead
The past twenty years have seen a substantial shift of focus and thinking in the field of C–H bond activation at metal centres. Initially, much effort was aimed at elucidating whether alkane activation at metal centres was at all possible, resulting in the realization that this process is, in fact, easier than had been anticipated. Attention then turned to investigating how these reactions take place. Although much remains to be learned about the processes and factors controlling the activity and selectivity of catalytic alkane activation, considerable mechanistic insight has been gained, particularly for oxidative addition reactions. The main difficulty ahead now lies with using and increasing this knowledge in order to develop practical processes that exploit alkane transformation chemistry. Although it remains challenging to reconcile the constraints inherent in alkane chemistry with thermodynamic, economic and engineering requirements when trying to develop such processes, the achievements to date promise that ongoing research in this important field will eventually allow us to harness alkanes more directly, efficiently and cleanly.