This article was published as part of the
2008 Chemistry at Surfaces issue
Reviewing the latest developments in surface science 
All authors contributed to this issue in honour of the 2007 Nobel Prize winner 
Professor Gerhard Ertl
Please take a look at the issue 10 table of contents to access  
the other reviews
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online / Journal Homepage / Table of Contents for this issue
The nature of the active site in heterogeneous metal catalysisw
Jens K. Nørskov,*a Thomas Bligaard,a Britt Hvolbæk,a Frank Abild-Pedersen,ab
Ib Chorkendorﬀc and Claus H. Christensend
Received 9th May 2008
First published as an Advance Article on the web 4th August 2008
DOI: 10.1039/b800260f
This tutorial review, of relevance for the surface science and heterogeneous catalysis communities,
provides a molecular-level discussion of the nature of the active sites in metal catalysis.
Fundamental concepts such as ‘‘Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi relations’’ and ‘‘volcano curves’’ are
introduced, and are used to establish a strict partitioning between the so-called ‘‘electronic’’ and
‘‘geometrical’’ eﬀects. This partitioning is subsequently employed as the basis for deﬁning the
concept ‘‘degree of structure sensitivity’’ which can be used when analyzing the structure
sensitivity of catalytic reactions.
Introduction
Metal surfaces are used extensively as catalysts in all sections
of chemical industry, in environmental protection and in
energy conversion processes. Typically, the metals are present
in the form of nanoparticles in order to expose as large a
surface area as possible to the reacting molecules from the gas
or liquid phase. Nanoparticles larger than a few nanometres
are often found in ‘‘in situ’’ experiments1–4 to be nicely crystal-
line exposing well-deﬁned surfaces together with a number of
other conﬁgurations of metal atoms—steps, kinks, edges, and
corners. An important question is which of these local
geometries constitute the active sites where the catalysis
actually takes place. Related to this is the question of the
origin of the structure dependence of reaction rates as ob-
served for instance through the variations of the catalytic
activity with particle size.
The question of the nature of the active sites and structure
dependence of heterogeneous catalysts has been debated for
almost a century,5–17 dating back to the suggestion by Taylor
that unsaturated active sites at the atomic level can control the
surface chemical reactivity.5 Boudart went on to classify reac-
tions in terms of their structure sensitivity or structure insensi-
tivity.6,7 The understanding of the structure dependence of
reactions has progressed enormously with the development of
ultra-high vacuum technology combined with single crystal
studies.9 Somorjai,10,11 Yates,12,13 and their co-workers have
used such surface science studies to demonstrate and analyze in
detail the enhanced chemical activity of step sites compared to
close-packed surfaces. This has led to the ﬁrst direct STM
observations of the active sites for the NO dissociation reaction
over atomically resolved stepped ruthenium surfaces by Ertl
and co-workers.14 Recently, gold nano-eﬀects18 has become one
a Center for Atomic-scale Materials Design (CAMD), Department of
Physics, Building 307, Technical University of Denmark,
DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark. E-mail: norskov@fysik.dtu.dk
b Computational Materials Design ApS, Matematiktorvet 307,
DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark
c Center for Individual Nanoparticle Functionality (CINF),
Department of Physics, Building 312, Technical University of
Denmark, DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark
d Center for Sustainable and Green Chemistry (CSG), Department of
Chemistry, Building 206, Technical University of Denmark, DK-2800
Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark
w Part of a thematic issue covering reactions at surfaces in honour of
the 2007 Nobel Prize winner Professor Gerhard Ertl.
The research in surface science and heterogeneous catalysis at
the Technical University of Denmark (DTU) is organized in
three research centers with strong interrelations. Professor Jens
K. Nørskov is the director of the Center for Atomic-scale
Materials Design (CAMD) and is also the director of
NanoDTU which is the interdisciplinary nanotechnology center
at DTU. Professor Ib Chorkendorﬀis the director of the Center
for Individual Nanoparticle Functionality (CINF). Professor
Claus H. Christensen is the director of the Center for Sustainable
and Green Chemistry (CSG). Dr Britt Hvolbæk is the vice
director of NanoDTU. Dr Frank Abild-Pedersen is the Chief
Technology Oﬃcer in the start-up company Computational
Materials Design ApS. Assistant professor Thomas Bligaard is
the group leader of theoretical surface science and materials
informatics at CAMD.
Back row from the left: Thomas Bligaard, Ib Chorkendorﬀ
and
Jens
K.
Nørskov.
Front
row:
Britt
Hvolbæk
and
Claus H. Christensen
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171 | 2163
TUTORIAL REVIEW
www.rsc.org/csr | Chemical Society Reviews
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
of the hottest areas in catalysis research, and the origin of the
activity and the nature of the active sites is a topic currently
under intense debate.19–21 It was only after theoretical methods
based on density functional theory calculations were developed
into a semi-quantitative tool in describing surface reactivity,22
and the calculations were coupled to careful experiments, that it
became clear that there could be many orders of magnitude
diﬀerences in reaction rates for diﬀerent surface structures.15
In the present review, we provide a molecular level
discussion of the nature of the active sites in metal catalysis.
We will show how diﬀerent classes of reactions have diﬀerent
active sites and diﬀerent dependence of the catalytic activity
(turn over rate and/or selectivity) on particle size. We will
start by introducing the key concepts in our analysis: the
Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi (BEP) relationship between activa-
tion energies and reaction energies for elementary surface
reactions. They determine the trends in catalytic activity
from one metal to the next—the so-called volcano relation-
ships. The dependence of the BEP lines on the local
structure of the reaction site determines the structure sensitiv-
ity (or geometrical eﬀect) of the individual elementary
reactions and it also determines whether a complete catalytic
reaction
will
exhibit
structure
sensitivity
for
a
given
catalyst. We deﬁne on this basis a term that we call the ‘‘degree
of structure sensitivity’’, which can be used to quantify the
eﬀect.
BEP relations in surface reactions
The discussion in the following is based on the assumption
that supported metallic nanoparticles in a high surface area
catalyst can be viewed as consisting of a distribution of
surfaces with diﬀerent local geometries—diﬀerent facets or
edges, corners, steps and kinks. This is a good approximation
for metals where screening by the itinerant electrons intro-
duces a so-called ‘‘nearsightedness’’23,24 such that a perturba-
tion to the surface is only measurable within a screening
length—typically a few a
˚ ngstroms or on the order of one
lattice constant. For very small particles, where the electrons
are no longer itinerant this picture breaks down—the exact
size where this happens is still an open question. The near-
sightedness means that diﬀerent types of surface sites or local
geometries can be viewed as independent of each other. It also
means that the eﬀect of the support is restricted to the region
very close to the interface between the metal particle and the
support. Such eﬀects can be interesting, but we will not discuss
them further here. The support eﬀects that we are implicitly
including in the present treatment are thus those related to the
way the support inﬂuences the size and shape of the catalytic
metallic nanoparticles.
Any catalytic reaction consists of a series of elementary
reactions. We will study the eﬀect of diﬀerent local geometries
on the rate of diﬀerent types of elementary surface reactions
one by one, and then put this together in a description of
structural eﬀects for complete reactions.
There are two ways in which the geometrical structure can
aﬀect the stability of reaction intermediates and the activation
energy of a chemical reaction. One eﬀect is entirely electronic
and the other eﬀect is purely geometrical.
The electronic eﬀect is due to the surface metal atoms in
diﬀerent environments having slightly diﬀerent local electronic
structures and they hence interact diﬀerently with molecules
both when these adsorb and when they react. For transition
metals, it has been found quite generally that the d-band
center—the ﬁrst moment of the density of states projected
onto the d-orbitals for the surface atoms interacting with the
adsorbates—is a good measure of the ability of the atoms in
question to form bonds to an adsorbate.25–28 Late transition
metal atoms with a low coordination number (open surfaces,
steps, edges, kinks and corners) tend to have higher lying
d-states and therefore interact more strongly with adsorbates
than atoms on close packed surfaces with a high metal
coordination number.
The purely geometrical eﬀect comes from diﬀerent surface
geometries providing diﬀerent conﬁgurations to the molecule
for bonding.29 It is in general diﬃcult to diﬀerentiate the two
eﬀects: steps, for instance oﬀer atoms with higher-lying
d-states than close packed surfaces and at the same time they
oﬀer new surface atom conﬁgurations. One way to separate
the two eﬀects is by plotting the activation energy for a surface
chemical reaction as a function of the reaction energy for a
range of metals and for diﬀerent surface geometries, as illu-
strated in Fig. 1.
Activation energies for surface reactions are often found to
be roughly linear functions of the reaction energy:29,30
Ea = aDE + b
(1)
Fig. 1 shows examples of such plots—Brønsted–Evans–
Polanyi lines or BEP lines—for two dissociative adsorption
reactions. Such linear scaling between transition states and
adsorption energies can be viewed as resulting from both the
transition state and the adsorbates having adsorption energies
that are linearly dependent on the d-band center.28 For some
reactions such as the dissociation of methane, Fig. 1a,
essentially the same linear relation is found for diﬀerent
surface geometries. There can still be electronic step eﬀects
—observe for instance how the Ni(211) point is shifted to the
left of the Ni(111) point. This is an example of the d-band
eﬀect discussed above: the step atoms on the (211) surface
(see inset) have a lower metal coordination number and hence
higher lying d-states than the Ni atoms on the close
packed (111) surface. This leads to stronger bonding of
the
intermediates
as
well
as
the
transition
state.
The
electronic eﬀect thus corresponds to a displacement along
the BEP line.
For other reactions, there are large shifts in the BEP lines
for diﬀerent geometries. This is shown for N2 dissociation in
Fig. 1b. Such strong eﬀects are found generally for N–O, C–O,
O–O, N–N,29 and C–C bond scission.17 It is found that open
surfaces and in particular some kinds of steps have particularly
low-lying BEP lines (low b values, cf. eqn(1)).
Similar BEP lines have been found for reactions between
surface species and for desorption reactions. The latter
are simply the reverse of the adsorption reactions like
those
included
in
Fig.
1,
and
since
Ea,desorption
=
Ea,adsorption  DE, we have from eqn (1) that adesorption =
aadsorption  1.
2164 | Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
Strongly adsorbed atoms like N, C or O usually prefer the
sites with the highest metal coordination number, that is, the
same local adsorption geometry on e.g. a close packed and a
stepped surface. This means that if the point of a given metal
shifts on the x-axis of Fig. 1 when the geometry changes, this is
primarily an electronic eﬀect. It also means that, if we keep the
value of the reaction energy ﬁxed, the shift from one BEP line
to the next is the purely geometrical eﬀect. In this way, the two
eﬀects can be systematically separated.
The size of the geometrical eﬀect depends on the nature
of the transition state. The transition state for e.g. N2
dissociation is quite extended, see inset in Fig. 1b, and several
metal surface atoms can be used to stabilize it. The step
shown in Fig. 1b can use ﬁve atoms such that no metal atom
needs to bond to more than one of the N atoms during
the dissociation. The close-packed surface, on the other hand,
can only use four surface atoms and one of the surface
atoms needs to help stabilizing both N atoms. This is the
reason the step BEP line is below the BEP line for the close-
packed surface. We note that the Fe(111) surface, which is
extremely open and exposes sites that are very much like
the steps on the close-packed Fe(110) surface, is also on the
step line.
The fact that there is only a weak geometry-dependence for
the reaction in Fig. 1a is also a consequence of the nature of
the transition state. When C–H bonds are broken (or formed),
the transition state is much less extended than for N–N bond
breaking, and the transition state is situated above a single
metal atom. This makes the intrinsic geometrical eﬀect small.
The size of the geometrical eﬀect is therefore dependent on the
nature of the transition state, and for extended transition
states diﬀerent surface structures will give diﬀerent BEP lines.
Often close-packed surfaces give the highest and very open
structures like steps the lowest values of b, but this need not be
so for all molecules.
We conclude that we can identify three classes of structural
dependence for surface reactivity:
Strong structural eﬀects are found when the shift in BEP
lines (or shift in b, db) is large and larger than the shift in
reaction energy, dDE, from one structure to the next. This is a
truly geometrical eﬀect and N2 dissociation is an example of
this type of behavior. Other examples include N–O, C–O,
O–O, and C–C bond breaking.
Weak structural eﬀects are found when the b-shift is
small and the only eﬀect of a change in active site structure
is the electronic eﬀect due to a change in reaction energy
from one surface structure to the next. Methane activation is
an example of this type of behavior and other types of
C–H or O–H bond breaking (or making) reactions also belong
here.
No structural eﬀects are found when there is no geometry
dependence of b and there is no electronic eﬀect. There are not
likely to be many such examples, if any.
Exploiting the nearsightedness discussed above, the rate of
an elementary reaction on a surface with several diﬀerent types
of sites can be written as:
r ¼
X
i
ri ¼
X
i
AivieEai=kT ¼
X
i
vieðEaikT ln AiÞ=kT
ð2Þ
where Ai is the relative abundance of surface geometry i in the
system, vi is the Arrhenius prefactor, and Eai is the activation
energy for this geometry. T is the absolute temperature and k
is the Boltzmann constant. Assuming that the prefactors are
independent of the geometry, as they have been shown to be in
some cases,31 it is clear that an active site for an elementary
reaction can be deﬁned if one site (or class of sites) has an
activation energy that is smaller than all others on a scale of
kT and taking into account the relative abundance of this
particular conﬁguration.
The
relative
importance
of
two
sites
k
and
l
is
given by
rk
rl
¼ AkeEak=kT
AleEal=kT ¼ efðEakEalÞkTðln Akln AlÞg=kT
ð3Þ
Fig. 1
(a) The BEP relationships for dehydrogenation of methane over a number of fcc (211) and (111) transition metal surfaces. The stepped
surfaces show a slightly higher dissociation barrier than the (111) surfaces at a given reaction energy (dissociative chemisorption energy), but the
electronic eﬀect is much larger than the geometrical eﬀect, db { dDE. (b) The BEP relationships for N2 dissociation over a number of stepped and
close-packed surfaces. The BEP line for open surfaces lies signiﬁcantly below that of the close-packed surfaces (on the order of 1 eV). At a given
reactivity of the surface, N2 thus prefers splitting over the under-coordinated sites at the steps.15 Here the geometric eﬀect is larger than the
electronic eﬀect, db c dDE.
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171 | 2165
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
This shows that in order to compare the relative importance of
diﬀerent sites we should compare the geometry probability-
weighted activation energies:
Ew
ai = Eai  kT ln Ai
(4)
If one of these is smaller than the rest (on the scale of kT) this
site will dominate the reaction and the corresponding structure
will appear to be the active site. In the following, we will
consider examples of elementary reactions where it is possible
to identify a well-deﬁned active site.
For a complete catalytic reaction consisting of several
elementary reaction steps, it takes a more elaborate analysis
to deﬁne that active site and to determine the structure
dependence of the catalytic rate. To this end, we will ﬁrst in
the following section brieﬂy discuss the relationship between
BEP relations and trends in catalytic reaction rates.
From BEP relations to reactivity trends: the
Sabatier analysis
It was realized already a century ago that the rate for a
heterogeneous catalytic reaction under given conditions shows
a maximum when considered as a function of the reactivity of
the catalytic surface.32 In other words, the most active catalyst
is neither a very reactive nor a very noble surface, but rather a
compromise between these extremes. Modern electronic struc-
ture theory allows us to quantify what is meant by ‘‘reactivity
of the catalytic surface’’, and thus to analyze the origins of the
experimental observations. Here, we discuss how the linear
BEP relationships described above can lead directly to volcano
curves when the rate is plotted against the reactivity of the
catalytic surface as described e.g. by the dissociative chemi-
sorption energy of the key reactant.
We consider a simple ‘‘generalized’’ surface-catalyzed reac-
tion not with the aim of describing a particular reaction in
detail, but rather to highlight the common features determin-
ing catalytic activity for heterogeneous catalysts in general. A
heterogeneous catalytic reaction can be viewed in general
terms as a number of coupled reaction steps which include
adsorption of the reactants, subsequent surface-mediated ac-
tivation of the reactants followed by surface-mediated recom-
bination and ﬁnally removal of the products from the surface.
For the simplest reactions, the recombination and removal
occurs in a single step.
Fig. 2 shows a sketch of a potential energy diagram for such
a simple reaction, corresponding to the reaction equations:
A2 + * # A2*
(r1a)
A2* + * # 2A*
(r1b)
A* + B # AB + *
(r2)
Here the ‘‘*’’ represents a surface site, and e.g. A2* signiﬁes
that A2 is bound to a surface site. If the non-dissociated state
of the reactants (the precursor state) is only weakly adsorbed,
the adsorption (r1a) and the activation (r1b) of the reactant
can be viewed as a single dissociative chemisorption step with
an eﬀective activation barrier of Ea1 relative to the gas phase
reactant:
A2 + 2* # 2A*
(r1)
Reaction (r2) is written as if the gas phase molecule B reacts
directly with an adsorbed atom A with an activation barrier of
Ea2. This should rather be thought of as a generalized reaction,
which may involve several elementary steps, including adsorp-
tion of B in a diﬀerent site than A, such that A and B do not
compete for coverage.
From the discussion in the previous section, it is clear that
there often exists a linear relation between the barrier for
dissociative chemisorption, Ea1, and the dissociative chemi-
sorption energy, DE, and that an equivalent relation often
exists for the removal step. The reaction kinetics will thus
depend on two coupled linear relations:
Ea1 = a1DE + b1
(5)
Ea2 = a2DE + b2
(6)
where in most cases a1 is positive and a2 is negative. This
means that, as the surface becomes more reactive (more
negative DE), the barrier for activation of the reactants
becomes smaller and the barrier for desorption of products
becomes larger. Conversely, as the catalytic surface is chosen
among the more noble metals (less negative DE), the barrier
for activation of the reactants becomes large but the removal
of products becomes more facile.
It is perhaps not immediately clear that this behavior leads
to a volcano relation for the over-all reaction rate, since the
diﬀerent rates are coupled through the coverages of activated
reactants and the coverage of free sites. However, exact upper
bounds to the reactivity can be established under practical
assumptions, and these upper bounds will illustrate the volca-
no behavior. We refer to such type of analysis as the ‘‘Sabatier
analysis’’.33 Clearly, the over-all reaction rate cannot be larger
than the maximal forward rate of the activation step (r1), nor
can it be larger than the maximal rate of the removal step (r2).
In standard microkinetic modeling,7 the maximal forward rate
for a given step is equal to the rate constant, except from
Fig. 2
Schematic potential energy diagram for a surface reaction
involving adsorption of A2, dissociation of A2, and the removal of A
from the surface by two consecutive reactions with B to form two AB
molecules from one A2 and two B ‘‘molecules’’.
2166 | Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
trivial prefactors depending only on coverages and pressures.
Coverages maximizing the rate are assumed. This is an exact
upper bound, and is often reasonable, since a step being slow
will in many cases have a tendency to make the coverage of the
involved reactants high. The pressures are of course known
from the applied reaction conditions. Due to the linear rela-
tions discussed above, the rate constants for the two key
reaction steps behave oppositely. This is illustrated in Fig. 3.
The maximal rates are shown for the two reaction steps, with a
choice of reasonable standard reaction parameters.33 The ex-
ponential variations in the maximal rates of the individual steps
are due to the linear variations in the activation barriers in the
Arrhenius expressions for the rate constants as DE is varied.
The maximal rate curves trace out what we call the ‘‘Sabatier
volcano’’—an exact upper bound on the reaction rate.
The full self-consistent solution to the microkinetic model in
the steady state approximation is also shown in Fig. 3. It is
seen that under the given choice of reaction conditions (rela-
tively far from equilibrium between reactants and products in
the gas phase) the top of the Sabatier volcano coincides exactly
with the top of the full solution to the microkinetic model.
This is a general observation that the simple Sabatier volcano
describes the kinetics well, as long as the reaction is far from
equilibrium and the surfaces of optimal reactivity are not
poisoned by reactants or products. For reactions which are
not equilibrium-limited, the Sabatier analysis is thus often a
useful tool for understanding the reactivity of the optimal
catalyst. When there are more than two important reaction
steps, there can be more than one key descriptor. This occurs
when the reactions between the surface intermediates depend
on the adsorption of diﬀerent species whose adsorption en-
ergies are not highly correlated. One such example is the CO
oxidation reaction where both the adsorption energy of CO
molecules and of O atoms becomes important. The adsorption
energies of these two atoms do not correlate very well with
each other. This means that an understanding of the reactivity
trends over the transition metals for this reaction requires two
independent descriptors.34 In Fig. 4, the 2-dimensional
Sabatier volcano for the CO oxidation reaction over close-
packed surfaces and high-temperature conditions is shown.
Perhaps not surprisingly Pd and Pt turn out to be the best
catalysts under these conditions.
We thus conclude that the BEP relations for surface reac-
tions directly entail volcano relations for the catalytic rate as a
function of surface reactivity, and that there is ample reason
for describing the surface reactivity in terms of the dissociative
chemisorption energy of the key reactants.33
Classiﬁcation of structure sensitivity
The Sabatier analysis can be used to classify diﬀerent types of
structure sensitivity in catalytic reactions. Using the Sabatier
analysis is equivalent to only considering reactions with a
single well-deﬁned rate limiting step. Systems with several such
steps close to the top of the volcano where the real rate may
deviate a little from the Sabatier rate may show interesting
eﬀects when several diﬀerent sites can contribute and has been
discussed in detail by Zhdanov and Kasemo.35
For simplicity, we will consider the case where a single
adsorption energy can be used as a descriptor and where there
are only two elementary steps to consider. The discussion
below is easily generalized to the case with more elementary
steps.
Fig. 5 proposes a classiﬁcation of structure dependence of
complete catalytic reactions. In the ﬁgure, we show BEP lines
for the geometry probability-weighted activation energies,
eqn (4), and the corresponding volcanoes. For two elementary
steps, there are four possibilities depending on whether either
elementary reaction shows strong structural eﬀects or not
according to the deﬁnition above. For simplicity, we only
consider two diﬀerent local geometries, deﬁning the extremes
in the structure dependence of the elementary reactions. The
Fig. 3
The Sabatier volcano curve and the full solution to the
microkinetic model for the simple generalized heterogeneous catalytic
reaction. The parameters a1 = 0.89, b2 = 1.34 eV, a2 = 0.5, and
b2 = 0.8 eV were used. It has been assumed that the reaction enthalpy
of the total gas phase reaction is DE0 = 1 eV, but that does not aﬀect
the Sabatier curves, only the so-called approach to equilibrium. The
full microkinetic solution is shown for reaction conditions far from
equilibrium.33
Fig. 4
Contour plot of the Sabatier activity (kTln(rs/u)) in eV as a
function of ECO and EO (u is here set equal to kT/h) at close-packed
surfaces under high temperature conditions (T = 600 K, PO2 = 0.33
bar and PCO = 0.67 bar). The values for diﬀerent fcc(111) surfaces of
elemental metals are indicated as black points. Adapted from ref. 34.
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171 | 2167
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
structure with the lowest BEP line (shown dashed in the ﬁgure)
could be thought of as belonging to a step-like defect while the
other could represent a close-packed surface. This reﬂects the
line-ordering of the strongly bound diatomic molecules
(e.g. NO, O2, CO, and N2); it will, however, in general depend
on the reaction as to which surface structure has the
lower-lying line.
In Fig. 5, the arrows indicate what happens to the rate over
a given metal when going from a close-packed surface site to a
step site where the adsorption energy is more exothermic.
Fig. 5 suggests a set of rules for determining the nature of the
active site. For metals on the right leg of the volcano (noble
metals), the steps are always the most active. For the more
reactive metals on the left leg, it depends on the degree of
structure sensitivity of the elementary step whether the reac-
tion will appear structure sensitive or not. For Case 3 and
Case 4, the site that binds the intermediates most strongly has
the lowest rate. This is what one would expect since on the left
leg of the volcano, the rate-limiting step is the removal of the
adsorbed intermediates. Here, the most reactive sites (in the
sense of strongest bonding of surface intermediates) are self-
poisoned by the reaction and do not contribute signiﬁcantly to
the catalytic rate. Case 1 and Case 2 are exceptions to this rule.
Here the strongest bonding sites dominate because the reac-
tion barrier is aﬀected more than the reaction energy.
In the following section, we will discuss a number of explicit
examples illustrating the classiﬁcation above.
Examples
Fig. 6 shows the measured rate of methane dissociation on a
Ni(111) surface with approximately 4% step sites when the
surface is clean and when the steps have been blocked by
adsorbed sulfur. Fig. 7a shows the same experiment but for
CO dissociation. According to the discussion above, methane
dissociation should show weak structural eﬀects while CO
dissociation should show strong structural eﬀects. That is
exactly what the data show. The rate of methane dissociation
only diﬀers by a factor of 140, which corresponds to a
diﬀerence in activation barrier of approximately 0.2 eV, in
excellent agreement with the calculations (see Fig. 1a). For CO
dissociation, the surface where the steps are blocked shows no
observable
dissociation.
Scanning
tunneling
microscopy
Fig. 5
A classiﬁcation scheme of structure dependence for catalytic reactions. In each case the BEP lines for activation and removal are shown for
two diﬀerent sites. Below the BEP lines the resulting volcano types are shown. Case 1: both activation and removal exhibit structural dependence
(db c dDE). Case 2: activation is independent of structure but removal shows structural dependence. Case 3: activation is structure dependent but
removal is not. Case 4: neither activation nor removal shows structural dependence.
Fig. 6
Measured carbon deposits as a function of CH4 dose at 500 K
on a Ni(14 13 13) surface for two diﬀerent cases; one case where the
surface is ‘‘clean’’ (ﬁlled dots) and another where the step sites have
been blocked by dosing 0.06 ML sulfur.46
2168 | Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
studies on a stepped Ni(111) surface after reaction with CO
also show that the carbon deposits are exclusively formed
along the steps, see Fig. 7b.
We note that a very strong structure dependence can appear
in surface science experiments as an absence of structure
sensitivity. If a defect like a step is the only active site and
the nature of these defects are the same on diﬀerent single
crystal surfaces, then the rate will only depend on the number
of these defects. Since the ratio of such defect sites is on the
order of 1% due to the accuracy with which the crystal can be
aligned and the entire polishing and cleaning procedure (and
perhaps the area of the backside and edges of the crystal), the
number of such sites may not vary much from one facet to the
next. The rate of N2 dissociation on Ru is an example of this
behavior.15 Fig. 8 shows the sticking of N2 on a clean
Ru(0001) surface with approximately 1% step sites. Blocking
the steps by depositing small amounts of Au (1–2% of a
monolayer) makes the sticking drop by roughly nine orders of
magnitude, which clearly demonstrates the eﬀects of the step
sites. The open circle in Fig. 8 is the measured sticking of N2
on Ru(0001),36 which is identical to the sticking of N2 found
on the more open Ru(10
10) and Ru(11
21) surfaces.37 Another
example is N2 dissociation over Fe. Given the data in Fig. 1b,
the most straightforward explanation of the fact that Fe(110)
is only 1–2 orders of magnitude slower at N2 dissociation and
ammonia synthesis than Fe(111)38 is that there are a few
percent of defect sites on the Fe(110) surface, which would
otherwise be completely inactive. One of the important diﬀer-
ences between ultra-high vacuum surface science experiments
and ‘‘real’’ heterogeneous catalysis is that the catalytic reac-
tions occur at signiﬁcant gas pressures. This diﬀerence in
conditions between surface science and catalysis is often
referred to as the ‘‘pressure gap’’. An important aspect of
the pressure gap is that the morphology of the catalytic
particles might change signiﬁcantly due to adsorbates from
the reactive gas.2 This change in morphology is often accom-
panied with a change in the relative abundance of diﬀerent
active sites. The relative abundance under reaction conditions
is naturally the most relevant, but unfortunately also the most
diﬃcult to determine.
Degree of structure sensitivity
The structure dependence of complete catalytic reactions over
supported nanoparticle catalysts is often measured in terms of
the dependence of the rate per exposed surface area, r, on the
particle diameter, d:
a ¼  d ln r
d ln d
ð7Þ
If all surface sites contribute the same to the rate then a = 0,
meaning that the reaction step is structure insensitive. A value
larger than zero indicates that the active site is of a lower
dimensionality than the surface, that is, steps, edges, corners, or
kinks, and a thus deﬁnes the ‘‘degree of structure sensitivity’’.
Using eqn (2) and (3), we can write that in terms of the
contributions for diﬀerent surface geometries as
a ¼  d
r
dr
dd ¼  d
r n
X
i
dAi
dd eEai=kT ¼ 
X
i
ri
r
d ln Ai
d ln d
¼
X
i
ri
r ai
ð8Þ
Fig. 7
The experimentally determined carbon coverage on a Ni(14 13 13) single crystal as a function of the CO exposure at 500 K. Results are
shown for both the clean surface and for a surface that has been pre-exposed to 0.05 ML of sulfur which is known to preferentially block the steps.
The surface is incapable of dissociating the CO when the steps are blocked. Adapted from ref. 47.
Fig. 8
Arrhenius plot of measured thermal sticking coeﬃcients of N2
on a clean Ru(0001) surface and the same surface covered with
0.01–0.02 ML of gold. The open circle is the result from a similar
measurement at room temperature by Dietrich et al.36
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171 | 2169
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
where ai is a measure of the dimensionality of the sites of type i
(ai = 2  Ndimensions). Steps and edges (which are 1-dimen-
sional) of a particle have ai = 1, whereas corners and kinks
(which are point defects and therefore 0-dimensional) have
ai = 2.
Fig. 9 shows experimental data for methanation. Here, CO
dissociation is a necessary step in the reaction and as discussed
above it is strongly structure dependent. The data in Fig. 9
indicate that both edges and corners of the metallic nanopar-
ticles contribute to the rate, since the observed a is between
one and two.
A number of other reactions belong to the same class of
strongly structure dependent reactions. Ammonia synthesis is
a good example. As would be expected from Fig. 1b, the
ammonia synthesis shows a strong structure sensitivity.39,40
Other well-established examples include the steam reforming
process41 and the dry reforming of propane to synthesis gas
over Ni.42 For steam reforming, an a value of 1 was observed
for a number of metals indicating that even the weak struc-
tural eﬀect of C–H bond splitting is suﬃcient to make low-
coordinated metal atoms the active site.41 For the dry
reforming of propane the same may be true, but it may also
be that for this reaction the C–C bond breaking is the rate
limiting step and here we expect a strong structural eﬀect.
Recently, it was demonstrated by direct in situ characterization
of the active sites that H2 evolution over MoS2 shows a strong
structure sensitivity.43
There are cases illustrating how metals on two diﬀerent sides
of the volcano behave diﬀerently.44,45 The electrochemical
oxygen reduction reaction is such an example belonging to
the class of reactions we refer to as ‘‘Case 3’’. Here, the
removal of OH from the surface deﬁnes the left leg of
the volcano, and the barrier for water formation is believed
to be given essentially by the reaction energy. Hence, there is
no structural shift in BEP lines for this reaction. As expected,
Au on the right side of the volcano shows a clear increase in
rate per surface area when going to smaller particles, whereas
Pt on the left side has been measured to have a decrease in rate
per surface area when the particle size decreases.
Summary and conclusions
Based on the Brønsted–Evans–Polanyi (BEP) relations ob-
tained from electronic structure calculations of adsorption on
metal surfaces, we have provided a molecular level discussion
of the nature of the active sites in metal catalysis. It has been
discussed how diﬀerent classes of reactions result from the
nature of their active sites and how these classes exhibit
diﬀerent dependence of their catalytic activity as a function
of particle size. It was elaborated how the BEP relations
determine the trends in catalytic activity from one metal to
the next through the so-called volcano relationships. The
dependence of the BEP lines on the local structure of the
reaction site determines the structural (or geometrical) eﬀect of
the individual elementary reactions and it also determines
whether a complete catalytic reaction is structure sensitive
for a given catalyst. The BEP lines thus provide a tool to
systematically decompose structure sensitivity into indepen-
dent geometrical and electronic eﬀects. The geometrical eﬀect
is the one described by the diﬀerent vertical positions of the
BEP lines corresponding to diﬀerent sites, and the electronic
eﬀect is deﬁned by the diﬀerence in adsorbate–surface inter-
action between diﬀerent sites.
Acknowledgements
CINF and CSG are Danish National Research Foundation
Centers and CAMD is a Center funded by the Lundbeck
Foundation. The authors wish to acknowledge additional
economic support from the Danish Research Agency through
grant 26-04-0047 and from the Danish Center for Scientiﬁc
Computing through grant HDW-0107-07.
References
1 T. W. Hansen, J. B. Wagner, P. L. Hansen, S. Dahl, H. Topsøe and
C. J. H. Jacobsen, Science, 2001, 294, 1508.
2 P. L. Hansen, J. B. Wagner, S. Helveg, J. R. Rostrup-Nielsen, B. S.
Clausen and H. Topsøe, Science, 2002, 295, 2053.
3 S. Hofmann, R. Sharma, C. Ducati, G. Du, C. Mattevi, C. Cepek,
M. Cantoro, S. Pisana, A. Parvez, F. Cervantes-Sodi, A. C.
Ferrari, R. Dunin-Borkowski, S. Lizzit, L. Petaccia, A. Goldoni
and J. Robertson, Nano Lett., 2007, 7, 602.
4 L. C. Gontard, L.-Y. Chang, C. J. D. Hetherington, A. I.
Kirkland, D. Ozkaya and R. E. Dunin-Borkowski, Angew. Chem.,
Int. Ed., 2007, 46, 3683.
5 H. S. Taylor, Proc. R. Soc. London, Ser. A, 1925, 108, 105.
6 M. Boudart, Adv. Catal., 1969, 20, 153.
7 M. Boudart and G. Dje
´ ga-Mariadassou, Kinetics of Heterogeneous
Catalytic Reactions, Princeton University Press, Princeton, New
Jersey, 1984.
8 A. T. Gwathmey and R. E. Cunningham, Adv. Catal., 1958, 10, 57.
9 G. A. Somorjai, Surface Chemistry and Catalysis, Wiley, New
York, 1994.
10 G. A. Somorjai, R. W. Joyner and B. Lang, Proc. R. Soc. London,
Ser. A, 1972, 331, 335.
11 D. W. Blakeley and G. A. Somorjai, J. Catal., 1976, 42, 181.
12 J. T. Yates Jr., J. Vac. Sci. Technol., A, 1995, 13, 1359.
13 T. Zubkov, G. A. Morgan Jr., J. T. Yates Jr., O. Ku
¨ hlert, M.
Lisowski, R. Schillinger, D. Fick and H. J. Ja
¨ nsch, Surf. Sci., 2002,
526, 57.
Fig. 9
Double-logarithmic plot of the relative CO methanation
activity per Ni area of 1% CO in H2 at 523 K and 1 bar plotted as
a function of inverse particle size for a series of Ni catalysts with
varying average particle size. The experimental points are best de-
scribed by a line with a ﬁtted slope (structure sensitivity) of 1.63.
Adapted from ref. 47.
2170 | Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
14 T. Zambelli, J. Wintterlin, J. Trost and G. Ertl, Science, 1996, 273,
1688.
15 S. Dahl, A. Logadottir, R. C. Egeberg, J. H. Larsen, I.
Chorkendorﬀ, E. To
¨ rnqvist and J. K. Nørskov, Phys. Rev. Lett.,
1999, 83, 1814.
16 H. S. Bengaard, J. K. Nørskov, J. Sehested, B. S. Clausen, L. P.
Nielsen, A. M. Molenbroek and J. R. Rostrup-Nielsen, J. Catal.,
2002, 209, 365.
17 R. T. Vang, K. Honkala, S. Dahl, E. K. Vestergaard, J. Schnadt,
E. Lægsgaard, B. S. Clausen, J. K. Nørskov and F. Besenbacher,
Nat. Mater., 2005, 4, 160.
18 M. Haruta, Catal. Today, 1997, 36, 153.
19 M. Valden, X. Lai and D. W. Goodman, Science, 1998, 281,
1647.
20 N. Lopez, T. V. W. Janssens, B. S. Clausen, Y. Xu, M. Mavrikakis,
T. Bligaard and J. K. Nørskov, J. Catal., 2004, 223, 232.
21 A. S. K. Hashmi and G. J. Hutchings, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.,
2006, 45, 7896.
22 C. H. Christensen and J. K. Nørskov, J. Chem. Phys., 2008, 128,
182503.
23 W. Kohn, Phys. Rev. Lett., 1996, 76, 3168.
24 E. Prodan and W. Kohn, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A., 2005, 102,
1135.
25 B. Hammer and J. K. Nørskov, Nature, 1995, 376, 238.
26 B. Hammer and J. K. Nørskov, Surf. Sci., 1995, 343, 211.
27 B. Hammer and J. K. Nørskov, Adv. Catal., 2000, 45, 71.
28 T. Bligaard and J. K. Nørskov, in Chemical Bonding at Surfaces
and Interfaces, ed. A. Nilsson, L. G. M. Pettersson and J. K.
Nørskov, Elsevier, New York, 2008.
29 J. K. Nørskov, T. Bligaard, A. Logadottir, S. Bahn, L. B. Hansen,
M. Bollinger, H. S. Bengaard, B. Hammer, Z. Sljivancanin, M.
Mavrikakis, Y. Xu, S. Dahl and C. J. H. Jacobsen, J. Catal., 2002,
209, 275.
30 T. R. Munter, T. Bligaard, C. H. Christensen and J. K. Nørskov,
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, DOI: 10.1039/b720021h.
31 T. Bligaard, K. Honkala, A. Logadottir, J. K. Nørskov, S. Dahl
and C. J. H. Jacobsen, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2003, 107, 9325.
32 P. Sabatier, Ber. Dtsch. Chem. Ges., 1911, 44, 1984.
33 T. Bligaard, J. K. Nørskov, S. Dahl, J. Matthiesen, C. H.
Christensen and J. Sehested, J. Catal., 2004, 224, 206.
34 H. Falsig, B. Hvolbæk, I. S. Kristensen, T. Jiang, T. Bligaard,
C. H. Christensen and J. K. Nørskov, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.,
2008, 47, 4835.
35 V. P. Zhdanov and B. Kasemo, J. Catal., 1997, 170, 377.
36 H. Dietrich, P. Geng, K. Jacobi and G. Ertl, J. Chem. Phys., 1996,
104, 375.
37 K. Jacobi, H. Dietrich and G. Ertl, Appl. Surf. Sci., 1997, 121–122,
558.
38 G. Ertl, in Catalytic Ammonia Synthesis: Fundamentals and Prac-
tice, ed. J. R. Jennings, Plenum Press, New York, 1991.
39 S. R. Tennison, in Catalytic Ammonia Synthesis: Fundamentals and
Practice, ed. J. R. Jennings, Plenum Press, New York, 1991.
40 C. J. H. Jacobsen, S. Dahl, P. L. Hansen, E. To
¨ rnqvist, H. Topsøe,
D. V. Prip, P. B. Møenshaug and I. Chorkendorﬀ, J. Mol. Catal.
A: Chem., 2000, 163, 19.
41 J. M. Wei and E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2004, 108, 4094.
42 L. B. Ra
˚ berg, M. B. Jensen, U. Olsbye, C. Daniel, S. Haag,
C. Mirodatos and A. Olafsen Sja
˚ stad, J. Catal., 2007, 249, 250.
43 T. F. Jaramillo, K. P. Jørgensen, J. Bonde, J. H. Nielsen, S. Horch
and I. Chorkendorﬀ, Science, 2007, 317, 100.
44 K. J. J. Mayrhofer, B. B. Blizanac, M. Arenz, V. R. Stamenkovic,
P. Ross and N. Markovic, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109, 14433.
45 S. Guerin, B. E. Hayden, D. Pletcher, M. E. Rendall and
J. P. Suchsland, J. Comb. Chem., 2006, 8, 679.
46 F.
Abild-Pedersen,
O.
Lytken,
J.
Engbæk,
G.
Nielsen,
I.
Chorkendorﬀand J. K. Nørskov, Surf. Sci., 2005, 590, 127.
47 M. P. Andersson, F. Abild-Pedersen, I. N. Remediakis, T.
Bligaard, G. Jones, J. Engbæk, O. Lytken, S. Horch, J. H. Nielsen,
J. Sehested, J. R. Rostrup-Nielsen, J. K. Nørskov and I.
Chorkendorﬀ, J. Catal., 2008, 255, 6.
This journal is 
c The Royal Society of Chemistry 2008
Chem. Soc. Rev., 2008, 37, 2163–2171 | 2171
Published on 04 August 2008. Downloaded on 17/07/2013 16:34:57. 
View Article Online
