Classic Poems 
The Oxford Treasury of 
Classic Poems (ISBN# 0-19-
276-187-0) is a solution to a 
the challenge of 
finding poet-
ry that will capture a young 
reader's attention. In this 
beautiful 
book, 
Michael 
Harrison and Christopher 
Stuart-Clark have collected 
93 poems by renowned poets 
such as Matthew Arnold, 
William Blake, John Keats, 
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, William Shakespeare, 
Walt Whitman, and William Wordsworth. Children 
will revel at the classically bizarre "Jabberwocky," the silly 
''Adventures of Isabel," and the peaceful calm of "Lake 
Isle oflnnisfree." They will encounter the range of 
emo-
tions that are produced from reading and listening to 
classic poetry. The illustrations, in color and black and 
white, bring a fresh interpretation to the poems on each 
page. For more information, contact Oxford University 
Press, 198 Madison Ave., New York, NY 10016. 
Student-Managed Portfolios 
Tom Crockett provides the 
rationale and characteristics 
of classroom portfolios in 
his new book, The Portfolio 
journey: A Creative Guide to 
Keeping Student-Managed 
Portfolios in the Classroom 
(ISBN# 
1-5308-454-6). 
This book shows educators 
how to establish criteria for 
portfolios, what to put into 
portfolios, and an overview of 
four types of 
portfolios. 
Using the metaphor of travel, these types include 
working portfolios ("trunks"), display portfolios 
("suitcases"), special portfolios ("daypacks"), and pro-
ject portfolios ("kits"). The book suggests ways of 
establishing criteria, choosing content, and construct-
ing portfolios to meet different purposes. Assessment, 
40 + 
NOVEMBER/DECEMBER 1998 
rubrics, parent involvement, and multimedia portfo-
lios are just some of 
the other topics covered. For each 
topic, there are reproducible worksheets and class-
room-ready handouts for students. It also includes a 
chapter on the teacher's portfolio. For a professional 
development "trunk," Crockett provides a list of pos-
sible categories of evidence that the teacher might 
want to include, such as creative projects, exceptional 
moments, student work, management photographs, 
and even personal items. In an appendix, the author 
includes information about two software products for 
organizing student portfolios and additional readings. 
For more information, contact Teacher Ideas Press, 
P.O. Box 6633, Englewood, CO 80155-6633; (800) 
237-6124. 
Geology Crafts 
Alan 
Anderson, 
Gwen 
Diehn, and Terry Kraut-
wurst have created "50 
nifty projects to explore the 
marvels of planet earth" in 
their new book Geology 
Crafts for Kids Information 
Investigation: 
Exploring 
Nonfiction with Books Kids 
Love 
(ISBN# 
0-8069-
8157-1). 
Students 
will 
learn about earth science through hands-on activities 
that cover such topics as continental drift, earth-
quakes, crystals, erosion, map-making, fossils, and 
volcanoes. Each chapter begins with background 
information that includes facts and general principles 
and ends with related experiments. For example, at 
the end of the chapter on "How do you spell relief? 
E-a-r-t-h-q-u-a-k-e!," the students create a seismo-
graph from materials that might be found around the 
home. The experiment includes a list of needed 
materials, specific construction steps, and pictures or 
illustrations that are clearly written for a novice. For 
more information, contact Sterling Publishing 
Company, Inc., 387 Park Avenue South, New York, 
NY 10016. 
Theater Games 
On Stage (ISBN# 
1-55652-324-6) is 
a book of acting 
and theater games 
for children from 
ages 4-12. Lisa 
Bany-Winters has 
organized 
the 
activities into 11 
chapters. The first 
introduces basic theater words through games. The sec-
ond chapter is full of fun warm-ups for body or voice. 
Children practice tongue twisters, sing "Father 
Abraham," mirror one another's actions, follow instruc-
tions, listen for number cues, walk on imaginary 
"floors," and create "echoes" to practice projection. 
Some of the other topics in the book include creating 
characters, improvisation, using and becoming objects, 
creative drama, and behind the scenes. The final chap-
ter includes scripts that students may perform alone or 
in small groups. Teachers will find these games useful 
in many subject areas. For more information, contact 
Chicago Review Press, 814 North Franklin St., 
Chicago, IL 60610. 
Vocabulary Development 
In a WOrd, the first of six 
volumes, teaches vocabu-
lary using word webs. 
Words are introduced in 
groups with similar mean-
ings. For example, the 
hub of the first word fam-
ily is cycle, with spoke 
words of unicycle, tricycle, 
motorcycle, bicycle, encyclo-
pedia, recycle, cyclone, and 
cyclops. Some of the learned words are then con-
nected to new webs-unicycle to "uni-" words such 
as unicorn, uniJY, unison, and so on. The book pro-
ceeds in this fashion with teacher tips and student 
activities to reinforce the new vocabulary. Using the 
" 
h 
,, 
d 
b' 
fi 
morp -a-meter, stu ents com me pre 1xes, roots, 
and suffixes to create new word families. Scattered 
throughout the book are "chameleon letters," letters 
in any word that change; "intensives," prefixes that 
heighten the meaning; and "webstretchers," enrich-
ment activities. Using a conceptual approach, stu-
dents learn words through associations, discovery, 
patterns, and meanings. The selected words com-
plement all core subject areas from math to science 
to social studies to English. Students as early as 
fourth grade may increase their vocabulary using 
this book. For more information, contact Excel 
Incorporated, 
23385 
Old 
Barrington 
Rd., 
Barrington, IL 60010. 
Geography and Literature 
Designed for students in 
grades 3-6, Discovering 
Geography 
of 
North 
America with Books Kids 
Love, is organized by the 
regions of the United 
States, plus Canada and 
Mexico. Each section inte-
grates fiction and nonfic-
tion children's books with 
activities and projects, 
providing an interdisciplinary approach to learning 
geography. Each chapter begins with background 
facts and information about the area along with an 
initiating activity. These activities may include ref-
erence "hunts," pen pal letters, product develop-
ment, songs, sketches, pictures, guest speakers, and 
so on. Author Carol Fuhler then uses the themes of 
location, the position on the earth's surface; place, 
physical and human characteristics; interactions, 
the relationship between people and the area; move-
ment, changes in the location; and regions, areas 
with similar characteristics, to teach the national 
geography standards. At the end of each lesson is a 
reference list of books that relates to the state or 
geographic area. For more information, contact 
Fulcrum Publishing, 350 Indiana St., Suite 350, 
Golden, CO 80401. 
GIFTED CHILD TODAY+ 41 
