element not found
element not found
We use cookies to provide you with an optimal website experience. This includes cookies that are necessary for the operation of the site as well as cookies that are only used for anonymous statistical purposes, for comfort settings or to display personalized content. You can decide for yourself which categories you want to allow. Please note that based on your settings, you may not be able to use all of the site's functions.
CONFIGURE CONSENT
ACCEPT ALL
Skip to main content
For media
for contributors
about
contact
IZA
IZA Newsroom
subscribe to newsletter
Login
register
ARTICLES
KEY TOPICS
OPINIONS
AUTHORS
TEACHING MATERIAL
HOME ARTICLES ANONYMOUS JOB APPLICATIONS AND HIRING DISCRIMINATION
Anonymous job applications and hiring discrimination UPDATED
Blind recruitment can level the playing field in access to jobs but cannot prevent all forms of discrimination
Ulf Rinne
IZA, Germany
Deutsch
Español
ONE-PAGER
FULL ARTICLE
Elevator pitch
The use of anonymous job applications (or blind recruitment) to combat hiring discrimination is gaining attention and interest. Results from field experiments and pilot projects in European countries (France, Germany, the Netherlands, and Sweden are considered here), Canada, and Australia shed light on their potential to reduce some of the discriminatory barriers to hiring for minority and other disadvantaged groups. But although this approach can achieve its primary aims, there are also important cautions to consider.
Key findings
Pros
Anonymous job applications can prevent discrimination in the initial screening stage of recruitment.
Anonymous job applications may boost job offer rates for minority candidates.
Anonymous job applications signal a strong employer commitment to focus solely on skills and qualifications.
Standardized anonymous job application forms are an efficient implementation method.
Job applicant comparability may increase with the use of anonymous job applications.
Cons
Anonymous job applications have the potential to reduce discrimination only when discrimination is high.
Anonymous job applications may simply postpone discrimination to later in the hiring process.
Blind recruiting may foil other positive measures to promote more diversity and can limit the scope for affirmative action.
Suboptimal implementation of anonymous job application procedures can be costly, time-consuming, labor-intensive, and error-prone.
Context-specific information may be interpreted disadvantageously if the candidate's identity is unknown.
Author's main message
Anonymous job applications have the potential to remove or reduce some discriminatory hiring barriers facing applicants from minority and other disadvantaged groups. When implemented effectively, anonymous job applications level the playing field in access to jobs by shifting the focus toward skills and qualifications. Anonymous job applications should not, however, be regarded as a universal remedy that is applicable in any context or that can prevent any form of discrimination.
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
SHOW FULL ARTICLE
PRINT
CITE
PRINT
CITE
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
KEYWORDS
discrimination, hiring, job applications, recruitment
CLASSIFICATION
Behavioral and personnel economics
Human resource management practices
Migration and ethnicity
Performance of migrants
Evidence map
RELATED ARTICLES
Correspondence testing studies
Dan-Olof Rooth
Gender wage discrimination
Boris Hirsch
Identifying and measuring economic discrimination
Sergio Pinheiro Firpo
Racial wage differentials in developed countries
Simonetta Longhi
Do anti-discrimination policies work?
Marie-Anne Valfort
FURTHER READING
KEY REFERENCES
ADDITIONAL REFERENCES
FULL REFERENCE LIST
Open full reference list
PRINT ALL REFERENCES
Version(s)
CURRENT VERSION: 2
VERSION: 1
DATE
October 2018
DOI
10.15185/izawol.48.v2
AUTHOR
Ulf Rinne
ARTICLE NUMBER: 48
    Get the latest news and articles delivered to your inbox
Subscribe to the IZA World of Labor newsletter
SUBSCRIBE TO NEWSLETTER
News archive
Terms and conditions
Frequently asked questions
Privacy and cookie policy
Copyright © IZA 2024 Impressum.
All Rights Reserved. ISSN: 2054-9571