Brilliant opportunities across the spectrum
John Evansab
Received 24th March 2006, Accepted 28th April 2006
First published as an Advance Article on the web 24th May 2006
DOI: 10.1039/b604369k
Third generation synchrotron light sources provide stable, tuneable light of energy up to the hard
X-ray region. The gain of a trillion in brightness as compared to a conventional laboratory X-ray
source transforms the opportunities for establishing structure–function relationships. The light
may be quasi-continuous or pulsed, have controllable polarisation and have coherence lengths
larger than the sample size. The high brightness provides a basis for adding time and spatial
resolution to X-ray scattering and spectroscopy. It may also be used to identify very speciﬁc
information about the magnetic properties of atoms within materials, element speciﬁc vibrations,
and local structural descriptions identiﬁed with chemical speciation. More demanding scattering
and diﬀraction problems can be solved such as weakly scattering materials, large unit cells and
structural entities. The high collimation of the source also provides enhanced spectroscopic and
diﬀraction resolution that gives more insight into molecular, extended and supramolecular
structures. The length scales can be bridged from the atomic up to that of visible light microscopy
and buried features within materials can be observed with the appropriate energy. With an
increased emphasis on ease of use, such capabilities are open to exploitation for chemical
challenges.
1.
Introduction
Synchrotron radiation sources are now well established as
tools for scientiﬁc investigation.1 Initially, light was extracted
parasitically from accelerators, but the provision was far from
optimised in terms of access periods, source design and
stability. A second generation of light sources succeeded these.
Such storage rings were designed and operated as dedicated
light sources, giving great improvements in experimental
access and stability. The light is emitted from the bending
magnets that create the quasi-circular path for the high energy
electrons at relativistic velocities. It follows a broad spectral
band, which can span from the far infrared, or THz region,
deep into the X-ray component of the electromagnetic spec-
trum. Such sources provided the bases for the wider expansion
of synchrotron radiation into the chemical sciences.
However, the distribution of radiation from the bending
magnets (normally electromagnets) of a storage ring is around
its critical energy, Ec, the equipartition energy, at which point
the source is close to its maximum intensity. The critical
energy is a function of the magnet ﬁeld, B (in T), at the
electron beam, and the energy of the electron, E (in GeV):
Ec (keV) = 0.667BE2
(1)
While this white source provides for many diﬀerent experi-
ments, it is optimised for none. Few light sources operate at
electron energies other than the normal maximum; if that were
reduced to address the needs of one particular experiment it
would doubtless be at the expense of many of the others
utilising other source points on the ring. So, to ensure a better
match between source and experimental requirements diﬀerent
magnetic devices are necessary to provide diﬀerent spectral
characteristics. This installation of insertion devices (IDs) is
feasible in the straight sections of the ring that were initially
there to link the bending magnet sectors. The simplest of these
is a wavelength shifter (sometimes called a wiggler). Normally
a three pole magnet is used to provide a tighter radius of
curvature as the electrons pass through a chicane. The eﬀect of
a higher magnetic ﬁeld will be to shift Ec to a higher energy
(eqn (1)); often this is achieved using superconducting magnets
with perhaps a 5-fold increase in ﬁeld and thus in Ec.
Each of the poles of a wiggler acts as an independent light
source, and so aligning N poles in series will increase the
intensity of the light source N-fold. This is an operationally
better solution than attempting to increase the current in the
storage ring by a factor of N. The spectrum from such a
device, called a multipole wiggler (MPW), also follows eqn (1),
and provides an opportunity both to increase the intensity of
light on a sample and to modify the spectrum from that of the
parent bending magnet lattice.
A third type of device consists of an array of small magnets
that cause a small lateral perturbation of the electron beam. In
this case the light sources are not independent and their
interference gives rise to increased output at a particular
energy,
the
fundamental
E1,
and
at
higher
harmonics
(E2, etc.). The deﬂection factor, K, distinguishes these two
types of device:
K = 0.934BlU
(2)
where lU is the periodicity of the magnetic array (in cm). For
devices called undulators normally K is o1 and is >3 for a
wiggler. In the conventional design of an undulator, the
a School of Chemistry, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK
SO17 1BJ. E-mail: je@soton.ac.uk
b Diamond Light Source, Diamond House, Chilton, Didcot,
Oxfordshire, UK OX11 0DE. E-mail: john.evans@diamond.ac.uk
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058 | 3045
INVITED ARTICLE
www.rsc.org/pccp | Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online / Journal Homepage / Table of Contents for this issue
periodicity of the magnetic array is a ﬁxed parameter since it
consists of a permanent magnet structure. Then the energy of
the structured spectrum of the undulator can be varied by the
magnetic ﬁeld, B. So these devices oﬀer the possibility of a
near optimised source for a particular experiment. The energy
of the harmonic array, En, where n is the order of the harmonic
is given by:
En ðkeVÞ ¼
0:95nE2
ð1 þ K2=2Þlu
ð3Þ
Operationally, the electron energy and harmonic periodicity
are ﬁxed, so the means of varying the energy of the harmonic is
by varying the gap between the undulator poles. It is perhaps
non-intuitive that the eﬀect of increasing the gap, and thus
reducing the ﬁeld felt by the electron beam, will increase the
energy of the harmonics; it does however, reduce the intensity.
Major intensity gains at a sample are feasible if the insertion
devices are installed; each storage ring can be ﬁtted with a
variety of these to provide a range of spectra at the facility
overall. However, installing these devices has its own con-
straints on the design of the storage ring. Most obviously the
straight sections should be suﬃciently long to accommodate
these IDs, thus increasing the required circumference of a
storage ring. Also, to achieve the greatest beneﬁt from an
undulator source the electron beam size should be small and
this path very consistent. This requires a well designed mag-
netic lattice with higher order focussing magnets, again in-
creasing the optimal size of the storage ring. However, the
spectral improvements are such that the present state of the art
is one of these third generation sources, that is, one that is
speciﬁcally designed for insertion devices (undulators or multi-
pole wigglers). These storage rings also provide other proper-
ties of interest that go beyond merely increasing the ﬂux on a
sample of standard size. This review seeks to describe these
beneﬁts, and also their potential application to chemical
sciences. It is timely, since new third generation sources will
become available to user groups in the next few years:
SOLEIL,2 Diamond,3 ALBA,4 INDUS2,5 SESAME,6 Super-
SOR7 and the Australian Synchrotron.8
2.
Characteristics of third generation storage ring
light sources
The key spectral parameters for a synchrotron source are the
output spectrum (ﬂux vs photon energy), source size and
divergence, time structure, polarisation and coherence.9,10
2.1.
Output spectrum
Across the vacuum ultraviolet and soft X-ray regions, the ﬂux
plots of the SRS, as a second generation source, and existing
(ESRF) and upcoming (Diamond) third generation sources
are broadly similar (Fig. 1). Flux is deﬁned as the output in
photons s1 0.1% bandwidth1 mrad(h)1, providing the
density per milliradian of output fan extracted. Since a larger
acceptance angle is normally achievable on a smaller ring, like
the SRS, the three sources can provide very similar ﬂuxes on
many samples. As anticipated from eqn (1), the ring with the
lowest electron energy (SRS, 2 GeV) will provide less ﬂux at
higher energies, hence the incorporation of two superconduct-
ing wigglers as wavelength shifters.11 In the infrared region,
the ﬂux is dependent only upon the beam current and is
independent of the electron beam energy.
2.2.
Beam size and divergence
The larger lattices of these two third generation sources create
smaller electron beam emittances, e (=ss0). The small values
of the electron beam sizes (s) and angular divergences (s0)
result in a more tightly collimated photon beam, as reﬂected in
the increased brightness. The brightness units used in Fig. 2
and 3 are also termed brilliance in some schools (photons s1
mm2 mrad2 0.1% bandwidth1); in those schools, bright-
ness is presented in units of photons s1 mrad2 0.1%
bandwidth1. The brightness/brilliance of the three sources
is presented in Fig 2.
The eﬀect of a multipole wiggler is to increase both ﬂux and
brightness, providing a smooth change in intensity with energy
over a broad spectral range (Fig. 3). However, it can be seen
that a gain of up to 106 in brightness can be derived from
undulator outputs, which have very small photon beam di-
vergences (B10 mrad). The angular compression caused by an
undulator is a 1/ON, where N is the number of periods and the
intensity of the central cone of radiation down the axis of the
undulator increases directly with N. The undulator plots are
for varied gaps (the numbers given are the periods in mm), and
the inverse relationship between energy and period is evident.
The plots show the maximum brightness that can be achieved
across the energy spectrum. There is an apparent discontinuity
when the optimising intensity would require changing the
harmonic number being tracked.
These brightness values may be compared to those dis-
played by laboratory sources, which spread from the order
of B108 for a stationary anode through to B1010 for a
rotating anode with microfocusing.10 The great increase in
brightness provides for substantially increased spatial resolu-
tion in facetted samples and, in diﬀraction experiments, for
increased resolution in interatomic distances.
2.3.
Time structure
For most experiments, the light source is used in a quasi-
continuous fashion. In a large storage ring like that at the
ESRF (844 m circumference), the revolution time for a single
Fig. 1
Flux (photons s1 mrad(h)1 0.1% bandwidth1) calculated
from bending magnets on the SRS (green), ESRF (blue) and Diamond
(red). Copyright Diamond Light Source Ltd, 2006.
3046 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
bunch of electrons is B2.8 ms. Most ﬁlling patterns are termed
multibunch, and so the light is actually received in packets of
B20 ps duration received separated by several nanoseconds.
So for measurement times in excess of 105 s, this is eﬀectively
a continuous source. Down to the time period of the orbital
revolution, the time resolution achievable in an experiment is
governed by sensitivity, detector characteristics and the in-
trinsic resolution of the sample initiation system (e.g. a gas
pulse onto a catalyst bed or a stopped ﬂow cell dead time).
However, sources can also be operated with restricted
numbers of electron bunches. For example, in its 16 bunch
mode, the ESRF delivers a pulse width of 48 ps (RMS) every
176 ns. Then the bunch length provides the potential time
resolution for an experiment.
2.4
Polarisation
The observer of the electron beam would see a linear oscilla-
tion of the electron path in the plane of the orbit. Accordingly,
synchrotron light in the plane of the machine orbit has linear
polarisation; above and below the plane the polarisation is
elliptical, giving components of right and left circular polar-
isation.
This is also the case for a conventional undulator which
creates a linear oscillation. However by controlling the phas-
ing of the magnetic arrays in an undulator (as in the helical
undulator shown as HU64 in Fig. 3), then polarisation control
spanning linear, circular and elliptical can be attained.
2.5.
Coherence
Synchrotron sources, especially from undulators can be de-
scribed as being partially coherent sources; the narrower band
spread of an undulator harmonic and its narrow cone create a
spread of parameter space that displays wave-like properties
such as interference. The lateral (or transverse or spatial)
coherence arises from the small beam size and divergence of
undulator radiation. The fraction of the ﬂux that is transver-
sely coherent is p l2 and p 1/exey.10 The longitudinal
coherence length, lc, over which a wavelngth variation is not
signiﬁcant is given by lc = l2/Dl. The transverse coherence
length is given by lt = lL/2s, where L = distance between
source and sample. Coherence lengths in the X-ray range of
10–100 mm are achievable.12
3.
Applications to chemical systems
In addition to the improved spectral characteristics of modern
storage ring sources, there are other important operational
developments in accelarator physics that greatly ease the
ability to carry out complicated experiments. The early second
generation sources used the booster synchrotron to lift the
energy of the electron beam to an intermediate level between
that from the linear accelerator to that in the storage ring
itself.11 So, once the full current was injected, the energy has to
be ramped. This requires time and problems during ramping
add to the down time to users. The current generation of
sources achieve the full electron energy in the booster and so
eliminate this extra step. Now also injection can be achieved
without closing the shutters at the front ends at the beamlines,
so injection is essentially a top-up process of one or two
minutes restoring 10–20% of the current (at the ESRF).13
Then the optical elements do not have a period of cooling and
Fig. 2
Brightness (photons s1 mm2 mrad2 0.1% bandwidth1) calculated from bending magnets on the SRS (green), ESRF (blue) and
Diamond (red). Copyright Diamond Light Source Ltd, 2006.
Fig. 3
Brightness (photons s1 mm2 mrad2 0.1% bandwidth1)
calculated for insertion devices on Diamond. The undulator periodi-
cities are shown in mm. Copyright Diamond Light Source Ltd, 2006.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058 | 3047
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
rapid reheating during a cycle of beam dump and reﬁll. This
improves the stability and reproducibility of experiments,
which is vital for time and spatially resolved experiments.
The top-up mode has been taken a stage further at the
advanced photon source14 where top-up occurs at frequencies
of multiples of 2 min and a quasi-constant current is main-
tained. This does create an eccentric path for a few turns and
allowance may be required for a few classes of time resolved
experiments. The incorporation of beam position feedback
systems has also dramatically improved beam stability.
3.1
Spatial discrimination in complex materials
The tightly collimated beams emanating from the third gen-
eration sources may be used to provide conventional measure-
ments on voxels within a complex sample. Hence 2- or 3-D
images may be reconstructed to map elements, oxidation
states, crystalline phases or molecular species. An array of
focussing options is available to match the experiments in
question, such mirrors, curved crystals, compound refractive
lenses, capillaries and zone plates. Microprobes with micron
resolution are attainable in the hard X-ray region, and a soft
X-ray microscope with spatial resolution down to 15 nm has
been reported.15
Some synchrotron imaging experiments are extensions of
laboratory instruments. For example, the enhanced brightness
even in the infrared region provides a greatly improved
measuring time at the diﬀraction limit of resolution.16
For example, with a 6  6 mm spot, the central medulla
(5–10 mm) of a human hair (50–100 mm) could be spectro-
scopically characterised and imaged on its characteristic
bands. Infrared microspectroscopy can be applied on very
small samples under a controlled atmosphere. This is particu-
larly important for the investigation of rare samples, for
example of cultural heritage importance. An example is the
study of skin fragments from the leg of an Egyptian mummi-
ﬁed woman held at the anthropological museum of the
Faculty of Medicine at the University of Athens.17 This
showed that the best preserved part of the skin was the outer
(20 mm) layer, which had some protein content. In some lower
layers, spots of crystallised palmitic acid and others of calcium
oxalate were detected.
Another laboratory technique, energy dispersive X-ray
ﬂuorescence can be enhanced by high brilliance sources. For
example, the ﬂuid inclusions from gold-quartz veins from the
Italian Alps form an analytically challenging problem, as they
are about 100 mm in size within the quartz and contain a
mixture of trace elements. A Fresnel zone plate was used to
focus radiation at 12.5 keV into a 2  7 mm spot delivering
B1010 photons s1.18 This energy allows this buried sample to
be probed, and showed in particular enhanced arsenic levels
(B147 ppm) in the inclusion as compared to the quartz
matrix, with copper and zinc also present. The arsenic was
not homogeneous in the inclusion, being absent from a CO2
bubble trapped within the aqueous inclusion.
On the same beamline at the ESRF (ID22), a geological
sample from the very large Popigai meteorite impact crater in
Russia was also investigated by X-ray ﬂuorescence (using
compact refractive lens as focusing element to 2  4 mm spot
delivering 5  109 photons s1 at 20 keV energy).19 A 70 mm
transparent carbonaceous platelet was studied by Raman
spectroscopy as well as by X-ray techniques, which also
utilised the microfocus beam for X-ray diﬀraction. A carbon
containing grain was identiﬁed within a silica host (quartz and
cristobalite). Rastering across this platelet with the microbeam
located three crystallographic phases. Two are the known
carbon forms of graphite and lonsdaleite, a hexagonal form
of diamond. But the third phase of hard carbon appears to be
a new cubic phase (space group Pm3m), presumably formed
under the extreme conditions during the impact some 36
million years ago.
Microfocus diﬀraction was combined with microfocus
XANES (X-ray absorption near edge structure) to analyse
particles of nuclear fuel obtained in the vicinity of Chernobyl
after the explosion in 1986. X-ray absorption spectroscopy is
almost entirely a technique carried out at synchrotron sources,
since it requires a tunable X-ray source; the brehmstrahlung
from a laboratory X-ray source is not competitive. The
position and structure of the near edge region varies with
the oxidation state, ligand donor set and coordination geo-
metry. As a spectroscopic technique it may be applied to glassy
as well as crystalline samples. While X-ray ﬂuorescence can
provide maps of elemental composition, XANES can map
chemical speciation (as does IR microspectroscopy for appro-
priate samples). The uranium L(III) edge (at 17.2 keV, due to
the photoionisation of a 2p electron) is sensitive to the oxida-
tion state and so could be used to probe the chemical changes
to fuel particles after the explosion and the ensuing ﬁre.20 The
wind directions took particles released in the blast to the west
of the site, and subsequently deposition during the ﬁre was to
the north. The distribution of uranium in the particles is
shown in Fig. 4, presented as 3-D microtomographs. The ﬁrst
particle has an even distribution of uranium, with the small
voids possibly due to ﬁssion gases, however the material
deposited after the ﬁre has a much more open structure.
Microfocus powder diﬀraction indicated that the ‘‘west’’
Fig. 4
Exploded 3-D visualisation of the uranium distribution in
particles from Chernobyl (a) from the west of the site and (b) from the
north of the site. Reprinted from Nucl. Instrum Methods Phys. Res.,
Sect. A, 467–468, B. Salbu, T. Krekling, O. C. Lind, D. H. Oughton,
M. Drakopoulos, A. Simionovici, I. Snigireva, T. Weitkamp, F.
Adams, K. Janssens and V. A Kashparov, High energy X-ray micro-
scopy for characterisation of fuel particles, 1249–1252, Copyright
2001, with permission from Elsevier (ref. 20).
3048 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
particle gave only weak patterns, mostly of UO2. However the
‘‘north’’ particle appeared to be a mixture of U3O8 and U2O5.
The micro-XANES measurements conﬁrmed an increase in
the mean oxidation state in the particles deposited after the
ﬁre. However, during the explosion the outer layer of
the (west) particle appears to have been reduced to an oxida-
tion number of B2.5, possibly by the graphite rods in the
reactor.
The eﬀectiveness of speciation by combining X-ray ﬂuores-
cence, micro-XANES and IR microspectroscopy is exempli-
ﬁed by a study of microfossils and contemporary microbial
ﬁlaments.21 With a sub-micron sized beam, the oxidation
states of sulfur could be mapped on a sub-cellular scale by
comparison with some model compounds (Fig. 5a). The high
sensitivity of the sulfur XANES pattern to oxidation state
provides a valuable chemical speciation teachnique, and re-
veals a relatively low level of the high oxidation state sulfur in
the microfossil.
3.2
Magnetic properties of materials
The X-ray magnetic circular dichroism (XMCD) eﬀect pro-
vides a means of monitoring the magnitude and distribution of
magnetic moments. Most typically, it is applied to the photo-
ionisation of the p core electrons, as in the L(III) and L(II)
edges. For the 3d transition elements these occur in a soft
X-ray range (0.4–1 keV). The L(III) edge creates a 2p5
3/2
conﬁguration in its excited state, whilst the higher energy
L(II) edge is associated with the lower j value, viz. 2p51
2. In
the XANES region there are transitions from the core to the
valence band which, by the dipole selection rule, will be
dominated by transitions to 3d orbitals. So for an Fe(II) centre,
the excited states will be based around conﬁgurations of
2p53d7. Unlike the situation of the ionisation of the 1s electron
at the K-edge, these two orbitals interact signiﬁcantly and the
coupling between them must be considered in order to explain
the observed spectra.22 The observed spectra are a function of
the core and valence spin–orbital coupling constants, the
interelectronic interactions (Coulombic and exchange) and
also the ligand ﬁeld. So these L edge spectra are sensitive to
the electronic conﬁgurations of the 3d ions, and, due to the
coupling between the 2p and 3d orbitals, the patterns are
diﬀerent for the L(III) and L(II) edges. As the angular momen-
tum of the photoelectron associated with these two types of
transition is coupled to the spin (in opposite senses), right and
left hand circularly polarised photons will transfer to states of
opposite spin moment in the empty conduction band.23 Hence,
when the magnetic degeneracies are lifted by a ﬁeld, these
Fig. 5
Sulfur K-edges XANES of a microfossil and bacterial ﬁlament against the spectra of model compounds (b) XANES intensity maps of a
microfossil and bacterial ﬁlament at energies typical of S0, SIV and SVI. Reprinted from Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta, 68, J. Foriel, P. Philippot, J.
Susini, P. Dumas, A. Somogyi, M. Salome
´ , H. Khodja, B. Me
´ nez, Y. Fouquet, D. Moreira and P. Lo
´ pez-Garcı´a, High-resolution imaging of sulfur
oxidation states, trace elements, and organic molecules distribution in individual microfossils and contemporary microbial ﬁlaments, 1561–1569,
Copyright 2004, with permission from Elsevier (ref. 21).
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058 | 3049
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
dichroism eﬀects will become evident. The magnitude of this
dichroism can provide a value for the orbital moment in ferro-
and ferri-magnetic materials,24 and the ratio of orbital/spin
moments in other paramagnetic materials.25 Antiferromagnetic
materials can be probed by linearly polarised X-radiation.23,26
Since the magnetic features are being sensed by element
speciﬁc transitions, the moments on each observed element are
also distinguished; generally magnetic properties are not dis-
aggregated in this way. An example of this is given in the study
of Pd/Fe multilayers using the palladium L(II) and L(III)
edges.27 The palladium atoms directly interfaced to iron had
an induced moment of 0.4 J T1, which contained very little
orbital contribution. This moment fell away with the number
of intervening layers, and was reduced to zero after 4 layers.
Magnetic domains in ferromagnetic materials may also be
imaged by monitoring the photoemission on exposure to the
circularly polarised X-radiation. This imaging technique uses
the electron yield to monitor the X-ray absorption and photo-
emission microscopy to image the result. An example is a
study of a thin layer (10–20 ML) of iron on a Ag(100) surface,
also incorporating a sub-monolayer overlayer of manganese.28
The magnetic properties of both the Fe and Mn can be imaged
independently using their respective L(II) and L(III) absorption
edges (Fig. 6). The manganese pattern can be seen to mirror
that of the iron (110) substrate, but with the opposite direc-
tions, indicating an antiferromagentic relationship to the iron
domain structure.
In the medium X-ray region (3–10 keV) the normal linear
polarisation of synchrotron radiation can be converted into
circular polarisation using a diamond phase plate device and
this radiation may be used to probe magnetic materials by
XMCD or diﬀraction.29,30 Although diﬀraction of X-rays is
dominated by the lattices of electron charge density, there are
also scattering mechanisms from the magnetic moment of the
electrons; there are terms which depend upon both the spin
and orbital moment.31–33 Normally in a ferromagnetic materi-
al the eﬀects are small, but in antiferromagnetics the super-
lattice peaks are observable due to the high signal–background
ratio achievable using a synchrotron source. The tunability of
the light source allows diﬀraction to be studied at the energies
of an absorption edge of one of the diﬀracting elements. The
change in scattering factor at the absorption edge (anomalous
scattering) is often used to assist in structure determination.
However, a large enhancement in the magnetic scattering and
a complex polarisation dependence near the L(III) absorption
edge of holmium were observed,34 and ascribed to X-ray
resonance exchange scattering.35 These enhancements are of
the order of 10–100 for the L edges of lanthanides but in the
region of 104–106 for the M edges of the actinides.33 Like the
XMCD eﬀect, the enhancement is from electronic transitions
sensitive to the magnetisation of the partially occupied valence
orbitals. In total this allows the separation of spin and orbital
contributions to magnetism and also the determination of the
spin density distribution. For example in a study of antiferro-
magnetic materials of the type U(As1xSex) very large reso-
nant X-ray scattering enhancements were noted around both
the As and Se K-edges.36 Even though the magnet moment
predominantly resides at the uranium, this eﬀect implies a
signiﬁcant mixing of the uranium 5f and the anions’ 4p
orbitals.
3.3
X-Ray coherence eﬀects
As described above, the coherence length in the X-ray region
can be larger than the size of the crystallites providing
diﬀraction patterns. So the normal diﬀraction ‘‘spot’’ from
this coherent wave is an interference pattern which contains
information about the structure of the crystal planes causing
the diﬀraction. This has been reported for gold nanocrystals
that were formed from high temperature treatment of an
evaporated polycrystalline ﬁlm.37 At 1  3 mm, this particle
was comfortably smaller than the transverse (5 mm) and long-
itudinal (6 mm) coherence lengths on the beam line at the APS.
The 3-D image of the diﬀracting particle was reconstructed
from a series of interference patterns and showed texture
inside the crystal that could be ascribed to regions of internal
order and defects.
In a direct analogue of dynamic light scattering to
study colloidal materials, X-ray photon correlation spectro-
scopy may be used to investigate the dynamics of mesoscopic
materials. In one example, the Brownian motion of colloidal
gold suspended in glycerol was monitored. The scattering
from particles of mean radius 27 nm was monitored and
the time constant for their motion estimated.38 Since this
report, studies of X-ray speckle patterns have become
more common, with the variation in the random interferences
providing information about the dynamics of the materials.
For example, the dynamic properties of a liquid crystal
(8OCB)
have
been
investigated
at
temperatures
near
to the nematic-to-smectic A phase transition.39 Gradual for-
mation of smectic layers in the nematic layers could be
monitored and the viscosity behaviour of the complex ﬂuid
studied.
Atomic resolution imaging by holographic methods is a very
appealing target.40 The aim of atomic imaging of a single
particle which does not have long range crystallographic order
is of widespread signiﬁcance for characterising functional
Fig. 6
Element speciﬁc imaging of magnetic domains of Mn/Fe/
Ag(100) using the L(III) edges of Fe (left) and Mn (right). The arrows
indicate the direction of magnetisation. Reprinted ﬁgure with permis-
sion from J. Dresselhaus, D. Spanke, F. U. Hillebrecht, E. Kisker, G.
van der Laan, J. B. Goedkoop and N. B. Brookes, Phys. Rev. B, 56,
5461 (1997). Copyright 1997 by the American Physical Society
(ref. 28).
3050 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
materials. In this technique, a single energy X-ray ﬂuorescence
pattern is monitored over a range of angles. The atom is acting
as a coherent light source generating the holographic pattern
from scattering from its neighbours. An alternative arrange-
ment, multi-energy X-ray ﬂuorescence holography, uses the
ﬂuorescent atom as the detector of monochromatic waves
scattered from its neighbours.41 A 2-D image of the atoms in
haematite up to a distance of 8.9 A
˚ was achieved in this way.
Further developments allowed a 3-D image of the atomic
arrangement in a CoO crystal with 0.5 A
˚
resolution to be
realised.42 In the quasicrystal alloy Al0.84Pd21Mn8.6, the atom-
ic distribution around the manganese could be imaged by
monitoring the Mn Ka ﬂuorescence.43 This showed the icosa-
hedral geometry around manganese and also the ﬁrst ﬁve or
six atomic shells (Fig. 7).
3.4
High resolution and weak eﬀect studies
The high brightness of third generation sources can be used to
prise out extra detail from a technique. Increasing the signal/
background ratio substantially can increase the reciprocal
space range in a diﬀraction pattern that is analysable and
the enhanced collimation can improve the resolution within
that range. The combined eﬀect is that larger and more weakly
scattering structures can be analysed to a higher spatial
resolution. For example, structural detail of a Blue Tongue
virus (BTV-10) was obtained from a unit cell of length 1600 A
˚ ,
and a cell volume of >109 A
˚ 3 with only B300 unit cells being
illuminated.44 A reﬁnement of a polymorph with a smaller unit
cell (half of the virus core) was solved to a resolution of 3.5 A
˚
from about 3.2 M unique reﬂections.45 Although smaller in
scale, sub units of the ribosome, complexes of RNA and
proteins, still present challenges for crystallisation and struc-
tural units of the order of molecular mass 106, and high
resolution structures are now feasible.46
High resolution diﬀraction can also be used to show subtle
and important eﬀects in less complex molecular entities. The
ability to obtain high resolution powder diﬀraction patterns at
high energies (40 keV in this example) means that the residual
stresses in a structural unit like a welded aluminium joint can
be monitored by observing the changes in cell constant by
resolving variations in 2y of 0.0011.47 At still higher energies
(100–300 keV), penetration through heavier metals such as
titanium and steel becomes suﬃciently high for strain mapping
in bulk samples of these materials.48 A sample of 316 stainless
steel was mapped using a 0.4  0.4 mm beam with counting
times of 50 s for each of 800 observations over a 14  10 mm
area. By total curve ﬁtting, an uncertainty in lattice parameter
of 105 was also achieved by energy dispersive diﬀraction.
Using hard X-radiation the lattice parameter variation of a
silicon crystal under an ultrasonic excitation has also been
achieved with a 20 ns time resolution.49 The compression and
dilation caused changes in the Bragg reﬂection angle of
2 arc.seconds.
Inelastic X-ray scattering can provide information about
energy levels of various types within a material. In a parallel
experiment to the more conventional Raman spectroscopy
using visible excitation, inelastic scattering of a hard X-ray
may be due to the X-ray absorption spectra of a lower Z
element. In one study on water and ice, an exciting radiation of
9.686 keV was employed to derive the oxygen K-edge XAFS
pattern.50 In this way the XAFS spectrum from bulk water can
be derived (attenuation length B1.5 mm), obviating the
normal surface selectivity intrinsic to studies using the oxygen
K-edge (0.543 keV, attentuation length 500 nm). The inelastic
eﬀect is weak, and spectra with 2 eV resolution (using a Si(666)
reﬂection) over a 200 eV range required 24 h collection time,
but aﬀorded the O  O ﬁrst neighbour distances (287 pm).
With higher order reﬂections close to a back scattering geo-
metry, higher energy resolution can be achieved. So with
170 meV resolution, inelastic X-ray scattering (IXS) has been
employed to probe the plasmon spectra of lithium solutions in
ammonia, showing features with energy losses of B2 eV.51
Energy resolutions of B2 meV (B16 cm1) have also been
achieved on such solutions, and the vibrational properties of
Fig. 7
3-D imaging of the quasi crystal Al70.4Pd21Mn8.6 local atomic
structure viewed from manganese ﬂuorescence. Top: hologram, bot-
tom: real space image. Reprinted ﬁgure with permission from S.
Marchesini, F. Schmithu
¨ sen, M. Tegze, G. Faigel, Y. Calvayrac, M.
Belakhovksy, J. Chevrier and A. S. Simionovici, Phys. Rev. Lett., 85,
4723 (2000). Copyright 2000 by the American Physical Society
(ref. 43).
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058 | 3051
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
these solutions could be studied, and could be modelled based
upon the [Li(NH3)4]1 ion.52
Also, by analogy to resonant Raman spectroscopy using
visible light as the excitation method, there is a family of
resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS) techniques based
upon photon in and photon out processes. A double spectro-
meter is employed to delineate the energy of the exciting
photon and also to analyse the energies of the emitted
photons. This experimental arrangement is a development
from the conventional ﬂuorescence method of indirectly mea-
suring an X-ray absorption spectrum. For dilute and/or thin
samples, a better signal/background ratio can be achieved by
measuring the ﬂuorescence yield from the sample as opposed
to transmission through it. This may either be achieved with a
detector with little or no energy discrimination, combined with
ﬁlters, or using energy selective solid state detectors. In
practice such detectors have a resolution of B200 eV and
are principally used to separate the ﬂuorescence from the
elastic (Raleigh) and Compton scattering. However, with a
crystal analyser, speciﬁc ﬂuorescence channels can be identi-
ﬁed and monitored. One reason to do so is to improve the
resolution of the X-ray absorption near edge features of the
excited atom.53 In an early study, the LIII edge of dysprosium
(7.790 keV) was monitored for the metal, its oxide and its
nitrate. The absorption process creates a core hole in the 2p
orbital and the resolution of the XANES features is limited by
the Heisenberg uncertainty broadening of this core hole (B4
eV). The dominant ﬂuorescence process (La1) will leave a 3d
core hole, with a longer lifetime and smaller atomic shell width
(1.4 eV). By monitoring this speciﬁc channel, close to the
absorption edge, the line width is not limitted by the L shell
core hole. The narrower line reveals features near the edge
considered to be 2p–4f transitions. Such additional detail
greatly adds to the structural discrimination feasible using
XANES measurements.
With a ﬁxed incident energy at or above the energy of the
absorption edge, the X-ray emission spectrum (XES) of a
sample may be measured by scanning the energy of the
ﬂuorescence signal with the second spectrometer. As com-
pared with X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), which
requires energy analysis of the photoelectron, the XES tech-
nique has a distinct advantage. It is compatible with a much
wider range of representative samples and sampling environ-
ments, and the sampling depth is set by the X-ray attenuation
length rather than the electron escape depth.
Hence the chemical shifts of the XES lines could provide
information about oxidation states. The chemical shifts may
be muted since both enegy levels in the transition will undergo
shifts. However, these dependencies diﬀer with the source of
the electron causing the ﬂuorescence. For a series of manga-
nese compounds the weaker Kb ﬂuorescence lines involving
the 3p orbitals show more signiﬁcant variations than the Ka
(involving the 2p), as a function of ligand, oxidation state and
spin state.54
When the energy of the exciting X-radiation passes through
the absorption edge region, speciﬁc emissions arise in a
correlated way, known as resonant inelastic X-ray scattering
(RIXS), or X-ray resonance Raman spectroscopy.54,55 The
term RIXS is used for diﬀerent experimental layouts. In the
resonant Raman spectroscopy, a series of spherically bent
collecting crystals can be used to increase the solid angle
collected and thus improve the signal/noise ratio. Alterna-
tively, a single detector can be used at varied scattering angle
and this can be used to establish the q vector of the inelastically
scattered radiation at a speciﬁc photon energy. The results
described here are more spectroscopic than scattering in
nature. Plots can be presented displaying either the emission
energy or the ﬁnal state (transfer) energy (transfer energy =
incident energy  emitted energy) but they depict speciﬁc
transmissions that can provide still more detailed information
about chemical and electronic structure.
Fig. 8
Surface plots of 1s2p RIXS spectra of a series of manganese
complexes from scans of the incident X-ray beam near the K absorp-
tion edge and the emission of the Ka1 of manganese. Reprinted from
J. Phys. Chem. Solids, 66, P. Glatzel, J. Yano, U. Bergmann, H. Visser,
J. H. Robblee, W. W. Gu, F. M. F. de Groot, S. P. Cramer and V. K.
Yachandra, Resonant inelastic X-ray scattering (RIXS) spectroscopy
at the Mn K absorption pre-edge—a direct probe of the 3d orbitals,
2163–2167, Copyright 2005, with permission from Elsevier (ref. 56).
3052 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
The RIXS features of a series of manganese complexes are
presented in Fig. 8.56 There is a strong dependence upon
oxidation state, with these pre-edge structure moving to higher
energies with increasing oxidation state. The spectral shape is
highly dependent upon the crystal ﬁeld splitting, and the
features for MnO could be reproduced well using a 10Dq
value of 1.1 eV.
If there are resolvable emissions that may be attributed to a
particular chemical environment, then this may overcome one
of the tangible diﬃculties in the use of EXAFS to probe
chemical mixtures. Since the scattering curves extend over
several 100 eV, they overlap and so the analysis must be
framed around the average of all sites of the absorbing
element. Site selective EXAFS has been achieved using the
diﬀerent Kb emissions of the two iron sites in Prussian Blue,
Fe4[Fe(CN)6]3  xH2O.57 The energy of the most intense Kb
emission for low spin Fe(II) and high spin Fe(III) were identi-
ﬁed as 7.0582 and 7.0614 keV, respectively, using K4Fe(CN)6
and Fe2O3 as reference samples. The emission maximum for
Prussian Blue itself at 7.0598 keV is close to the weighted mean
of these two contributions. X-Ray absorption spectra were
recorded at each of the three energies with a collection time of
75 min each. In this quite favourable case, analysis of the
EXAFS curves of the two sites could be separated, but the
weightings of the components in the Prussian Blue spectrum
implied that the emission band of the Fe(III) site is slightly
diﬀerent from that of Fe2O3, as might be expected. Never-
theless, the data did show the Fe-ligand distances as well as the
Fe  Fe separation (B5.1 A
˚ ).
The energy of hard X-radiation from a synchrotron source
not only matches core to valence transitions, but also some
nuclear energy levels. The most utilised transition in Mo
¨ ss-
bauer spectroscopy, that between I = 1/2 and 3/2 for 57Fe,
occurs at 14.4 keV (similar to the K absorption edge for Kr).
The radioactive Mo
¨ ssbauer source will emit in all directions,
so the high directionality of synchrotron radiation could have
experimental advantages since it can be focussed on small
samples, such as those at high pressure in diamond anvil cells.
Also, since the synchrotron source is tunable, nuclear transi-
tions that do not have viable radioactive sources may also be
studied.58 The core synchrotron technique is nuclear resonant
forward scattering (NFS) in which synchrotron radiation is
used in a pulsed mode, and the quantum beats of the nuclear
transitions (the lifetime of the 57Fe excited state is 141 ns) are
measured. From these patterns the isomer shift and hyperﬁne
splittings can be extracted. Again, analogous to resonance
Raman spectroscopy, there is the phenomenon of nuclear
inelastic scattering (NIS), or nuclear resonance vibrational
spectroscopy (NRVS), where there is transfer of energy to
the vibrational levels associated with the atom undergoing the
nuclear transition. This information is detected at 901 to the
sample, whereas the NFS signal is in transmission geometry.
In principle this provides isotope selective vibrational in-
formation, and thus could be used to identify modes that are
shrouded in the complexity of a full infrared spectrum. This
technique could therefore be correlated with conventional
Raman spectra to identify bands in myoglobin and cyto-
chrome f that involved motion of the iron atoms.59 Hence,
the force ﬁeld for the Fe-porphyrin unit can be reﬁned. The
Fe–C and d(Fe–C–O) modes, previously established by Ra-
man spectroscopy, can be identiﬁed at 502 and 572 cm1 by
NIS.60 Low temperature photolysis causes these bands to be
lost, and Fe–N stretches to the porphyrin (251 and 267 cm1)
and histidine (234 cm1) identiﬁed. The two porphyrin modes
are thought to show the splitting of the in-plane stretches
indicating a distortion of the 4-fold symmetry of the porphyrin
by the protein chain.
3.5
Time dependent studies
The extra ﬂux on the sample available in a 3rd generation
synchrotron source may be used to reduce the acquisition time
to allow physical and chemical processes to be monitored. In
terms of timescales, there are three regimes that are set by the
rotation time of a bunch of electrons in a storage ring (B106
s) and the length of the bunch (B1011–1012 s).
The ﬁrst regime is when the acquisition time of a measure-
ment is signiﬁcantly longer than the rotation time. The source
is then acting as a quasi-continuous one, and the ﬁlling mode
of the storage becomes relatively unimportant. So multibunch
modes may be favoured if they provide higher currents (and
hence light ﬂuxes) and stable beams. Even in this mode many
chemical processes can be probed with appropriate sampling
arrangements.61 For example, the dead-time of a stopped ﬂow
cell, of the order of 1 ms, provides a good match for the more
rapid experiments that can be performed without the require-
ment to synchronise the electron bunch to the gating of the
experiment. So stopped ﬂow XAFS was demonstrated over 15
years ago, using an energy dispersive technique to provide
parallel acquisition of the whole X-ray absorption spectrum of
interest.62 This technique was applied to the activation of
nickel complexes by aluminium alkyls thus generating homo-
geneous catalysts for alkene oligomerisation.63 Such processes
occur over a timescale of the order of seconds; the new nickel
complexes could be identiﬁed by XAFS, but no new inter-
mediates could be observed. However, by choosing a very
reactive substrate for oxidative addition, an intermediate was
observed
in
the
two-step
addition
of
CH3SO3CF3
to
[IrI2(CO)2]. However, the EXAFS features were not well
enough deﬁned to derive structural information about the
intermediate, this being the added value of the technique. This
requires a very ﬂat background and high signal/noise ratio.
This was achieved in another iridium system, namely the inner
sphere
electron
transfer
between
[IrIVCl6]2
and
[CoII(CN)5]3.64 The bridged complex [Cl5IrClCo(CN)5]5
was largely formed by the completion of the ﬁrst spectrum,
but analysis of the suite of time resolved spectra, over a period
of B6 s, showed there to be two components: the bridged
intermediate and the iridium product, mainly [IrIIICl6]3.65
The environment around the iridium is little changed in this
process, and simultaneous monitoring of the reaction by UV-
visible spectroscopy was utilised both to correlate with litera-
ture data and also to verify the electron transfer steps. The
intermediate could be identiﬁed by changes in the XANES
features and a small but measurable change in the Ir–Cl
distance and the associated Debye–Waller factors.
The combined techniques approach has also been employed
to monitor the de-activation processes of organopalladium
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058 | 3053
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
complexes into palladium clusters and, eventually, palladium
black, using a stopped ﬂow cell.66 Here a diode array spectro-
meter was also used to monitor the UV-visible spectrum and
this readily allowed palladium dimers and trimers to be
identiﬁed during the clustering process. While the XAFS
spectra alone could directly observe the development of Pd–Pd
bonds, establishing the nuclearity within a mixture of species is
not clear cut without this second technique.
The concomitant monitoring of the structure of a hetero-
geneous catalyst with its activity allows a closer marrying of
structure and function, since it is clear that the temperature
and gas composition over a catalyst bed can rapidly change
the constitution of a supported metal, as for Rh/Al2O3 under
NO and H2.67 Under conditions of high activity, the rhodium
is in a metallic form, and selectivity to the formation of N2 is
high. However, to achieve this, an activation temperature is
required and the stoichiometry of the gas mixture must not
have NO in excess. Even in H2 rich conditions, the rhodium
remains oxidised by NO until a threshold temperature, at
which point reduction occurs with the evolution of N2O.
Similar techniques have been applied to the CO/O2 reaction
catalysed by the same material.68 Under CO rich conditions
the metal is partially in an oxidised state as Rh(CO)2, whilst
the environment is akin to Rh2O3 under an oxygen rich
environment. Catalysis can be eﬀected under both composi-
tion regimes, but the onset of catalysis occurs at a lower
temperature under the oxidising environment. The active
phases are considered to be a mixture of small metallic cores
with an oxidic shell. Since O2 was found to oxidise the metallic
particles within an exposure time of 1 s at room temperature,
time resolved studies on a faster timescale than that are
necessary to track the structural changes.
Adding additional structurally sensitive techniques will
again enhance the identiﬁcation of components in the catalyst
system, thus diﬀuse reﬂectance infrared spectroscopy69 and
Raman with UV-visible spectroscopies70 have been appended
to energy dispersive XAFS. The vibrational data can identify
ligand (adsorbate) sites. For example, the mixture of CO and
NO were shown to create Rh(CO)2 readily at room tempera-
ture.69 Only once a temperature was reached that this complex
begins to break down, with the rhodium converting to small
metal particles, did the catalysed reaction ensue. In these
studies the repetition rate for the 3 techniques was B60 ms.
As the timescale of measurement is decreased towards 10 ms,
then synchronisation with the electron beam of the sortage
ring becomes essential since most ﬁlling regimes in the storage
ring are non-uniform. At the 1 ms level, the time potential
resolution suddenly changes. Synchronisation with the orbit-
ing electron beam to a bunch of electrons then means that the
limit on time resolution is the bunch length of the electrons (or
positrons), which may last for 1011–1010 s. The gap to the
next bunch gives the maximum repetition rate of the experi-
ment. For such experiments storage rings operate in single, few
(B4) or hybrid (1 single bunch opposite a multibunch seg-
ment) modes.
One approach to time resolved diﬀraction is to maintian the
sample at low temperatures to extend its lifetime and to
maintain the transient state by repeated excitation. In one
such study, on [{3,5-(CF3)2pyrazolate}Cu]3, a phosphorescent
molecule with a lifetime of 53 ms at 17 K, was replenished by
pulsed laser operating at 12 kHz repetition rate and sampled
by a chopped X-ray pulse of 18 ms duration.71 So synchronisa-
tion could maximise the diﬀerence between light-on and light-
oﬀmeasurements. The diﬀraction measurements showed that
an intermolecular Cu  Cu separation was reduced by 0.56 A
˚
as weakly bonded dimers are formed in the excited state.
The alternative is a pump–probe technique with varying
delay times, and this has been applied at the photodissociation
of CO from Mb–CO.72 Excitation utilised 7.5 ns pump pulses
(630 nm) and the probe was a single X-ray bunch of 150 ps
duration with delays of under 1 ms. Between 3 and 30
exposures were required to obtain viable Laue diﬀraction
patterns of the irradiated crystals. The CO was found to
migrate to a primary distal site away from the iron atom
within 1 ns. Migration to a secondary site gave it a maximum
occupancy after 100 ns, that decays with a half life of B10 ms.
CO molecules then diﬀuse out of the protein into the solvent
prior to a recombination step. These results have been used to
create a movie graphic of the CO relocations.
The total scattering from a 60 mM solution of 1,2-C2H2I2 in
CH3OH was recorded at 88 keV (0.141 A
˚ ) to achieve a high q
range (23 A
˚ 1) to maximise the resolution of interatomic
distances derived from the scattering pattern.73 The scattering
due to the solvent was extracted providing not only the C–I
bond length but also the non-bonding C  I (3.1 A
˚ ) and I  I
separations. This latter distance (5.1 A
˚ ) demonstrated the
predominance of the anti conformer. When high stability
and reproducibility are achieved, it is possible to derive
diﬀerence patterns from the overlapping scattering curves of
excited and ground state species in solution.73–77
The change in structure of the related molecule, CH2I2,
upon irradiation was monitored on a 50 mM solution at 16.22
keV, following excitation by 100 fs laser pulses at 267 nm.75
For both di-iodo-methane and -ethane the time resolved
diﬀerence scattering patterns for the excited states were dis-
cernible over a q range of 8 A
˚ 1.74,75 For CH2I2 the major
photochemical pathway is dissociation into the radicals CH2I

and I
, with a minor pathway to form CH2I–I, which has a half
life of B4 ns.75 Loss of I
 was also evident from 1,2-di-
iodoethane. Calculations indicated that the bridged isomer
of CH2I
 would be more stable than the anti one, with a I–C
distance of 3.1 A
˚ , and this provides a better ﬁt of the scattering
curve.74 An intermediate, (m-I–I)(CH2)2 is the dominant spe-
cies in the 1010 to 106 s time region, before loss of I2 results
in ethene formation. The combination of theory73 and experi-
ment74 provides a model for this intermediate with an I–I
distance of 2.7 A
˚
and distance from the carbons to the
bridging I atom of 3.3 A
˚ . The photo-induced chemistry is
depicted in Fig. 9.
Thermal expansion of the methanol solvent cage was clearly
evident at 100 ns after photolysis, resulting in a warming of
B5 1C after 1 ms.75 Similar experiments have also been
reported on photoexcited iodine in CH2Cl2
76 and CCl4.77 In
the I2 case, the diﬀerence pattern between photolysed and non-
photolysed solutions shows reduction in scattering due to the
I–I separation of 2.7 A
˚ ; this reduction reaches a maximum
after 200 ps.76,77 Some of the I2 can be observed in excited
states (I–I 3.2 A
˚ ). The diﬀerence in scattering due to the
3054 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
changes in I–I scattering is reduced by 1 ns after excitation and
is eliminated by 1 ms.77 The change in scattering is then entirely
ascribed to losses of Cl  Cl interactions (3.9 and 6.2 A
˚ ). In
this microsecond time regime, the energy in the hot iodine
molecules and atoms that is released on reforming the ground
state of I2 has been transferred to the solvent, also resulting in
changes in the intermolecular Cl  Cl separations. For the
solvent to relax will require considerably longer than a micro-
second, giving a boundary condition to the repetition rate of
some experiments.
Not only in diﬀraction and scattering is there a drive to
derive structural data on short lived transients. The journey
for X-ray absorption spectroscopy down from millisecond
through to sub-picosecond experimentation has been thor-
oughly reviewed recently.78 This technique has been used to
study the well-established photophysics of [Ru(bipy)3]21.79
The Ru L(III) edge (2.84 keV) was chosen, which has a
prominent white line due to allowed 2p - 4d transitions.
However, the relatively soft edge employed does give a high
degree of absorption from the solvent (water). Nevertheless,
spectra were acquired using 100 ps bunches of 500–1000
photons from a bending magnet source. Using a 1 kHz
repetition rate for light-on and light-oﬀ(interdigitated) spec-
tra, the XANES features of the phosphorescent transient
3[Ru(bipy)3]21 could be derived in a 10 min total acquisition
time (2500 pump–probe shots) (Fig. 10). The features in the
XANES region are very similar in position and magnitude to
those of [Ru(bipy)3]31, consistent with the MLCT nature of
this
excited
state,
which
approximates
to
3[RuIII(bi-
py)(bipy)2]21. This experiment used a relatively high concen-
tration of complex (80 mmol l1) for a photophysics or
photochemistry experiment, but if the experiment were per-
formed using an insertion device the extra ﬂux on the sample
could be used to reduce either the concentration of the sample
and/or the acquisition time, by sectioning the light within the
time span of a single electron bunch.
One method to probe within the electron bunch envelope
has been to use a streak camera which has been triggered by a
100 fs laser pulse timed by the master clock of the electron
storage ring.80 A 2 ps slice could be picked out of the 70 ps
bunch width from the ALS. The intensity of the diﬀraction
pulse from the bending magnet source indicated B1500
diﬀracted photons (of energy 5 keV) per pulse. A time resolved
X-ray diﬀraction pattern of laser excited InSb crystals has
been recorded with this instrumentation.81 A CCD camera
captured the output generated by a streak camera. The
intensity of diﬀraction spots near the InSb (111) reﬂection
was measured with a 3 ps time resolution, with each pattern
taking 1 minute to acquire (i.e. 60 000 shots). Laser excitation
(150 fs pulse, 800 nm) caused an oscillation of the intensity of
peaks (B0.05 THz) displaced from the Bragg reﬂection of the
unexcited material. The laser induced strain in the crystal was
observed to propagate with the velocity of sound within the
crystal.
Alternatively the source bunch itself may be ‘‘sliced’’ by
copropagating a femtosecond laser pulse with a stored electron
beam in a resonantly tuned wiggler (Fig. 11).82 The modulated
electron slice becomes separated from the rest of the bunch
and can be directed towards a beam line while the bulk of the
pulse follows the normal track around the storage ring. Hence
the bending magnet radiation of the displaced slice may be
Fig. 9
Schematic of the photochemical reactions of 1,2-C2H4I2 in methanol solution from time resolved X-ray scattering. Reprinted with
permission from H. Ihee, M. Lorenc, T. K. Kim, Q. Y. Kong, M. Cammarata, J. H. Lee, S. Bratos and M. Wulﬀ, Science, 2005, 309, 1223.
Copyright 2005 AAAS (ref. 74).
Fig. 10
(a) Static Ru L(III) XAFS of aqueous [Ru(bipy)3]n1, (b) the
diﬀerence spectrum of the excited state 300 ps after the laser pump
pulse and (c) the spectrum of the phosphorescent state (solid) and the
ground state (dashed). Reprinted ﬁgure with permission from M. Saes,
C. Bressler, R. Abela, D. Grolimund, S. L. Johnson, P. A. Heimann
and M. Chergui, Phys Rev. Lett., 90, 047403 (2003). Copyright 2003 by
the American Physical Society (ref. 79).
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058 | 3055
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
separated from that of the rest of the bunch. It was estimated
that 20% of the electrons received this kick eﬀectively and the
photon ﬂux obtained will also be reduced by the ratio of the
laser pulse length/electron beam pulse length. Hence relatively
few photons per pulse are delivered (B10–1000).78 Improve-
ments can be made by using an insertion device source, and
exploiting the maximum laser repetition rate.
Other approaches to enhance the eﬀective time resolution of
storage rings are also under consideration. The so-called low-a
optics83 could provide 1 ps bunches, but with much reduced
beam current (B1 mA) and larger emittance. Rotation of the
electron bunch may also reduce the duration of the light pulse
as the long direction of the bunch is moved out of the direction
of travel using a pair of (‘‘crab’’) RF cavities.84 This has been
recently assessed with the APS as the focus, and considered to
be a viable means of achieving a light pulse of 1–3 ps with no
signiﬁcant impact on normal APS operation.85 This may thus
be a route to a local ultrafast beamline (s) coexisting with the
breadth of experiments within a storage ring panoply.
There is much active consideration of the varied options
open to develop ultrafast sources in the VUV and X-ray
regions.78,86–88 Bench top lasers can provide soft to medium
energy X-radiation by higher harmonic generation and plasma
formation, respectively.88 Both have the time structure of the
source laser, most often a Ti:sapphire with B20 fs pulse, but
neither can provide the full energy range of a storage ring. The
plasma emission has some characteristics of a laboratory
source having no directionality, a broad background and X-
ray emission lines. HHG methods do have orientational and
coherence properties and they are developing rapidly. Their
output spectrum can be tuned by control of the spatial
structure of the laser pulse,89 and also the intensity and chirp
characteristics.90 These source can generate >107 photons per
pulse in their higher harmonics. In Fig. 12, some character-
istics of the various sources are compared. Many of these
boundaries are being expanded, for example by the shrinking
of storage ring electron bunches in their direction of travel.
The average brilliance of the HHG devices in the VUV region
is comparable to a bending magnet output on a storage ring,
but is signiﬁcantly lower than that of an undulator. The peak
power, however, is substantially higher.
Fig. 11
Bunch slicing arrangement to extract sub-ps X-ray pulses from an electron bunch. Reprinted with permission from R. W. Schoenlein, S.
Chattopadhyay, H. H. W. Chong, T. E. Glover, P. A. Heimann, C. V. Shank, A. A. Zholents, M. S. Zolotorev, Science, 2000, 287, 2237. Copyright
2000 AAAS (ref. 82).
Fig. 12
Energy and pulse duration properties of diﬀerent means of
creating pulsed radiation between the visible and X-ray regions.
Adapted ﬁgure with permission from T. Pfeifer, C. Spielman and G.
Gerber, Rep. Prog. Phys., 2006, 69, 443. Copyright 2006 Institute of
Physics (ref. 88).
Fig. 13
Peak brightness and pulse duration characteristics of accel-
erator based light sources. Adapted ﬁgure with permission from H.-D.
Nuhn, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter, 2004, 16, S3413. Copyright 2004
Institute of Physics (ref. 86).
3056 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
Accelerator based light sources are also in rapid develop-
ment with major projects in free electron lasers (FELs) and
energy recovering linacs (ERLs).86,87 These two arrangements
relax some of the boundary conditions of a storage ring since
they do not attain a steady state. Hence they can provide
shorter pulse lengths than a storage ring (Fig. 13). However, at
B102 fs they are still signiﬁcantly longer than ultrafast visible
light lasers. Their peak brightness is comparable to that of a
Ti:sapphire laser, but at much diﬀerent photon energies. As a
rule of thumb, the output per pulse of a FEL is similar to that
per second on a storage ring. As yet the jitter and the pulse
shapes render them less stable and reproducible sources than
storage ring and so experiments will have to be based on
single-shot measurements with synchronous characterisation
of the pulse proﬁle. That is a challenging task, but the sampled
region will not survive to receive averaging pulses.
3.
Conclusions
The ﬁeld of light sources is developing extremely rapidly.
Storage rings are providing increasing qualities of brightness
and stability. These can be exploited to probe far more
challenging and realistic samples and processes, using the
intensity of the light to shine through sample containment,
to probe spatially textured samples, to derive incisive informa-
tion from weak scattering events that contain chemical con-
nectivities, and also to derive time resolution. Time resolutions
are extending to the picosecond regime.
There are continuous innovations in the alternative laser
and accelerator light sources. These are the alternatives of
choice for monitoring processes on a faster timescale (true
dynamics rather than kinetics). But for that large tract of
science that may be probed outside those timescales, storage
rings can be expected to provide the best experimental facility
for experiments utilising the X-ray region for many years to
come. What delights this writer is the capability of the
scientiﬁc community to ﬁnd new ways of exploiting current
sources and of developing new ones. That makes the future
much more interesting than I can possibly relate.
Acknowledgements
I wish to thank my many colleagues at the Diamond Light
Source, the SRS, the ESRF and the Ultrafast Laser X-ray
Group in Southampton. It is a privilege to enjoy their imagi-
nation and professionalism.
References
1 See http://www.lightsources.org.
2 See http://www.synchrotron-soleil.fr.
3 See http://www.diamond.ac.uk.
4 See http://www.cells.es.
5 See http://www.cat.ernet.in/technology/accel/atdhome.html.
6 See http://www.sesame.org.jo.
7 See http://www.issp.u-tokyo.ac.jp/labs/sor/project/MENU.html.
8 See http://www.synchrotron.vic.gov.au.
9 ‘‘X-ray data booklet’’, ed. A. C. Thompson and D. Vaughan,
Lawrence Berkely National Laboratory, University of California,
Berkely, CA, USA, 2nd edn, 2001.
10 K.-J. Kim, p 2-1ﬀin ref. 9.
11 See http://www.srs.ac.uk.
12 ESRF Annual Report 1995-96, ESRF Grenoble.
13 See http://www.esrf.fr.
14 See http://www.aps.anl.gov.
15 W. Chao, B. D. Harteneck, J. A. Liddle, E. H. Anderson and D. T.
Atwood, Nature, 2005, 435, 1210.
16 P. Dumas, N. Jamin, J. L. Teillaud, L. M. Miller and B. Beccard,
Faraday Discuss., 2004, 126, 289.
17 M. Cotte, P. Walter, G. Tsoucaris and P. Dumas, Vib. Spectrosc.,
2005, 38, 159.
18 P. Philippot, B. Me
´ nez, M. Drakopoulos, A. Simionovici, A.
Snigirev and I. Snigireva, Chem. Geol., 2001, 173, 151.
19 A. El Goresy, L. S. Dubrovinsky, P. Gillet, S. Mostefaoui, G.
Graup, M. Drakopoulos, A. S. Simionovici, V. Swarmy and V. L.
Masaitis, C. R. Geosci., 2003, 335, 889.
20 B. Salbu, T. Krekling, O. C. Lind, D. H. Oughton, M. Drakopou-
los, A. Simionovici, I. Snigireva, T. Weitkamp, F. Adams, K.
Janssens and V. A Kashparov, Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phy. Res.
A, 2001, 467–468, 1249.
21 J. Foriel, P. Philippot, J. Susini, P. Dumas, A. Somogyi, M.
Salome
´ , H. Khodja, B. Me
´ nez, Y. Fouquet, D. Moreira and P.
Lo
´ pez-Garcı´a, Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta, 2004, 68, 1561.
22 F. M. F. de Groot, Coord. Chem. Rev., 2005, 249, 31.
23 J. Sto
¨ hr and S. Anders, IBM J. Res. Develop., 2000, 44, 535.
24 B. T. Thole, P. Carra, F. Sette and G. van der Laan, Phys. Rev.
Lett., 1992, 68, 1943.
25 P. Carra, B. T. Thole, M. Altarelli and X. Wang, Phys. Rev. Lett.,
1993, 70, 694.
26 G. van der Laan, B. T. Thole, G. A. Sawatsky, J. B. Goedkoop, J.
C. Fuggle, J.-M. Esteva, R. Karnatak, J. P. Remeika and H. A.
Dabkowska, Phys. Rev. B, 1986, 34, 6529.
27 J. Vogel, A. Fontaine, V. Cros, F. Petroﬀ, J.-P. Kappler, G. Krill,
A. Rogalev and J. Goulon, J. Magn. Magn. Mater., 1997, 165, 96.
28 J. Dresselhaus, D. Spanke, F. U. Hillebrecht, E. Kisker, G. van der
Laan, J. B. Goedkoop and N. B. Brookes, Phys. Rev. B, 1997, 56,
5461.
29 S. D. Brown, L. Bouchenoire, D. Bowyer, J. Kervin, D. Laundy,
M. J. Longﬁeld, D. Mannix, D. F. Paul, A. Stunault, P. Thomp-
son, M. J. Cooper, C. A. Lucas and W. G. Stirling, J. Synchrotron
Radiat., 2001, 8, 1172.
30 L. Bouchenoire, S. D. Brown, P. Thompson, J. A. Duﬀy, J. W.
Taylor and M. J. Cooper, J. Synchrotron Radiat., 2003, 10, 172.
31 F. de Bergevin and M. Brunel, Acta Crystallogr., Sect. A, 1981, 37,
314.
32 S. W. Lovesey and S. P. Collins, X-Ray scattering and absorption by
magnetic materials, Oxford University Press, Oxford, 1996.
33 M. J. Cooper and W. G. Stirling, Radiat. Phys. Chem., 1999, 56,
85.
34 D. Gibbs, D. R. Harshman, E. D. Isaacs, D. B. McWhan, D. Mills
and C. Vettier, Phys. Rev. Lett., 1988, 61, 1241.
35 J. P. Hannon, G. T. Tammell, M. Blume and D. Gibbs, Phys. Rev.
Lett., 1988, 61, 1245.
36 M. J. Longﬁeld, D. Mannix, G. H. Lander and A. Stunault, Phys.
Rev. B, 2001, 64, 212407.
37 G. J. Williams, M. A. Pfeifer, I. A. Vartanyants and I. K.
Robinson, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2003, 90, 175501.
38 S. B. Dierker, R. Pindak, R. M. Fleming, I. K. Robinson and L.
Berman, Phys. Rev. Lett., 1995, 75, 449.
39 A. Madsen, J. Als-Neilsen and G. Gru
¨ bel, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2003,
90, 85701.
40 M. Tegze and G. Faigel, Nature, 1996, 380, 49.
41 T. Gog, P. M. Len, G. Materlik, D. Bahr, C. S. Fadley and C.
Sanchez Hanke, Phys. Rev. Lett., 1996, 76, 3132.
42 M. Tegze, G. Faisel, S. Marchesini, M. Belakhovsky and A. I.
Chumakov, Phys. Rev. Lett., 1999, 82, 4847.
43 S. Marchesini, F. Schmithu
¨ sen, M. Tegze, G. Faigel, Y. Calvayrac,
M. Belakhovksy, J. Chevrier and A. S. Simionovici, Phys. Rev.
Lett., 2000, 85, 4723.
44 J. M. Grimes and D. I. Stuart, Nat. Struct. Biol., 1998, 5, 630.
45 J. M. Grimes, J. N. Burroughs, P. Gouet, J. M. Diprose, R. Malby,
S. Zie
´ ntara, P. P. C. Mertens and D. I. Stuart, Nature, 1998, 395,
470.
46 M. Gluehmann, R. Zarivach, A. Bashan, J. Harms, F. Schluenzen,
H. Bartels, I. Agman, G. Rosenblum, M. Pioletti, T. Auerbach, H.
Avila, H. A. S. Hansen, F. Franceschi and A. Yonath, Methods,
2001, 25, 292.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058 | 3057
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
47 M. N. James, D. J. Hughes, D. G. Hattingh, G. R. Bradley, G.
Mills and P. J. Webster, Fatique Fract. Eng. Mater. Struct., 2004,
27, 187.
48 A. Steuwer, J. R. Santisteban, M. Turski, P. J. Withers and T.
Buslaps, J. Appl. Crystallogr., 2004, 37, 883.
49 L. D. Liss, A. Magerl, A. Remhof and R. Hock, Acta Crystallogr.,
Sect. A, 1997, 53, 181.
50 D. T. Bowron, M.H. Krisch, A. C. Barnes, J. L. Finney, A.
Kaprolat and M. Lorenzen, Phys. Rev. B, 2000, 62, R9223.
51 C. A. Burns, P. Guira, A. Shukla, G. Vanko
´ , M. Teul-Benck-
endorf, E. D. Isaacs and P. M. Platzman, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2002,
89, 236404.
52 C. A. Burns, G. Vanko
´ , H. Sinn, A. Alatas, E. E. Alp and A. Said,
J. Chem. Phys., 2006, 124, 024720.
53 K. Ha
¨ ma
¨ la
¨ inen, D. P. Siddons, J. B. Hastings and L. E. Berman,
Phys. Rev. Lett., 1991, 67, 2850.
54 P. Glatzel and U. Bergmann, Coord. Chem. Rev., 2005, 249, 65.
55 P. Glatzel, U. Bergmann, W. Gu, H. Wang, S. Stepanov, B. S.
Mandimutsira, C. G. Riodan, C. P. Horwotz, T. Collins and S. P.
Cramer, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2002, 124, 9668.
56 P. Glatzel, J. Yano, U. Bergmann, H. Visser, J. H. Robblee, W. W.
Gu, F. M. F. de Groot, S. P. Cramer and V. K. Yachandra, J.
Phys. Chem. Solids, 2005, 66, 2163.
57 P. Glatzel, L. Jacquamet, U. Bergmann, F. M. F. De Groot and S.
P. Cramer, Inorg. Chem., 2002, 41, 3121.
58 H. Paulsen, V. Schu
¨ nemann, A. X. Trautwein and H. Winkler,
Coord. Chem. Rev., 2005, 249, 255.
59 K. L. Adam, S. Tsoi, J. Yan, S. M. Durbin, A. K. Ramdas, W. A.
Cramer, W. Sturhahn, E. E. Alp and C. Shultz, J. Phys. Chem. B,
2006, 110, 530.
60 J. T. Sage, S. M. Durbin, W. Sturhahn, D. C. Wharton, P. M.
Champion, P. Hession, J. Sutter and E. E. Alp, Phys. Rev. Lett.,
2001, 86, 4966.
61 (a) M. A. Newton, A. J. Dent and J. Evans, Chem. Soc. Rev., 2002,
31, 83; (b) E. L Heeley, T. Gough, W. Bras, A. J. Gleeson, P. D.
Coates and A. J. Ryan, Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. B,
2005, 238, 21.
62 N. Yoshida, T. Matsushita, S. Saigo, H. Oyanagi, H. Hashimoto
and M. Fujimoto, J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun., 1990, 1, 354.
63 M. B. B. Abdul Rahman, P. R. Bolton, J. Evans, A. J. Dent, I.
Harvey and S. Diaz-Moreno, Faraday Discuss., 2002, 122, 211.
64 S. Diaz-Moreno, D. T. Bowron and J. Evans, Dalton Trans., 2005,
3814.
65 D. T. Bowron and S. Diaz-Moreno, Anal. Chem., 2005, 77, 6445.
66 M. Tromp, J. R. A. Sietsma, J. A. Van Bokhoven, G. P. F. van
Stridonck, R. J. Haaren, A. M. J. van de Eerden, P. W. N. M. van
Leeuwen and D. C. Koningsberger, Chem. Commun., 2003, 128.
67 M. A. Newton, A. J. Dent, S. Diaz-Moreno, S. G. Fiddy and J.
Evans, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2002, 41, 2002.
68 M. A. Newton, A. J. Dent, S. Diaz-Moreno, S. G. Fiddy, B. Jyoti
and J. Evans, Chem.-Eur. J., 2006, 12, 1975.
69 M. A. Newton, B. Jyoti, A. J. Dent, S. G. Fiddy and J. Evans,
Chem. Commun., 2004, 2382.
70 A. M. Beale, A. M. J. van der Eerden, K. Kervinen, M. A. Newton
and B. M. Weckhuysen, Chem. Commun., 2005, 3015.
71 I. I. Vorontsov, A. Y. Kovalevsky, Y.-S. Chen, T. Graber, M.
Gembicky, I. V. Novozhilova, M. A. Omary and P. Coppens,
Phys. Rev. Lett., 2005, 94, 193003.
72 V. S
ˇ rajer, Z. Ren, T.-Y. Teng, M. Schmidt, T. Ursby, D. Bougeois,
C. Pradervand, W. Schildkamp, M. Wulﬀand K. Moﬀat, Bio-
chemistry, 2001, 40, 13802.
73 Q. Kong, J. Kim, M. Lorenc, T. K. Kim, H. Ihee and M. Wulﬀ, J.
Phys. Chem. A, 2005, 109, 10451.
74 H. Ihee, M. Lorenc, T. K. Kim, Q. Y. Kong, M. Cammarata, J. H.
Lee, S. Bratos and M. Wulﬀ, Science, 2005, 309, 1223.
75 J. Davidsson, J. Poulsen, M. Cammarata, P. Georgiou, R. Wouts,
G. Katona, F. Jacobson, A. Plech, M. Wulﬀ, G. Nyman and R.
Neutze, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2005, 94, 245503.
76 R. Nuetze, R. Wouts, S. Techert, J. Davidsson, M. Kocsis, A.
Kirrander, F. Schotte and M. Wulﬀ, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2001, 87,
195508.
77 A. Plesch, M. Wulﬀ, S. Bratos, F. Mirloup, R. Vuilleumier, F.
Schotte and P. A. Anﬁnrud, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2004, 92, 125505.
78 C. Bressler and M. Chergui, Chem. Rev., 2004, 104, 1781.
79 M. Saes, C. Bressler, R. Abela, D. Grolimund, S. L. Johnson, P. A.
Heimann and M. Chergui, Phys. Rev. Lett., 2003, 90, 47403.
80 J. Larsson, Z. Chang, E. Judd, P. J. Schuck, R. W. Falcone, P. A.
Heimann, H. A. Padmore, H. C. Kapteyn, P. H. Bucksbaum, N.
M. Murnane, R. W. Lee, A. Machacek, J. S. Wark, X. Liu and B.
Shan, Opt. Lett., 1997, 22, 1012.
81 A. M. Lindenberg, I. Kang, S. L Johnson, T. Misalla, P. A.
Heimann, Z. Chang, J. Larsson, P. H. Bucksbaum, H. C. Kapteyn,
H. A Padmore, R. W. Less, J. S. Wark and R. W. Falcone, Phys.
Rev. Lett., 2000, 84, 111.
82 R. W. Schoenlein, S. Chattopadhyay, H. H. W. Chong, T. E.
Glover, P. A. Heimann, C. V. Shank, A. A. Zholents and M. S.
Zolotorev, Science, 2000, 287, 2237.
83 J. L. Laclare, Nucl. Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. A, 2001,
467–468, 1.
84 A. Zholents, P. Heimann, M. Zolotorev and J. Byrd, Nucl.
Instrum. Methods Phys. Res., Sect. A, 1999, 425, 385.
85 M. Borland, Phys. Rev. ST Accel. Beams, 2005, 8, 074001.
86 H.-D. Nuhn, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter, 2004, 16, S3413.
87 D. H. Bilderback, P. Elleaume and E. Weckert, J. Phys. B: At.
Mol. Opt. Phys., 2005, 38, S773.
88 T. Pfeifer, C. Spielman and G. Gerber, Rep. Prog. Phys., 2006, 69,
443.
89 T. Pfeifer, R. Kemmer, R. Spitzenpfeil, D. Walter, C. Winterfeldt,
G. Gerber and C. Spielmann, Opt. Lett., 2005, 30, 1497.
90 C. A. Froud, E. T. F. Rogers, D. C. Hanna, W. S. Brocklesby, M.
Praeger, A. M. de Paula, J. J. Baumberg and J. G. Frey, Opt. Lett.,
2006, 31, 374.
3058 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3045–3058
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2006
Published on 24 May 2006. Downloaded on 26/10/2014 04:22:00. 
View Article Online
