Structure and function of oxide nanostructures: catalytic consequences
of size and composition
Josef Macht and Enrique Iglesia*
Received 28th March 2008, Accepted 27th May 2008
First published as an Advance Article on the web 9th July 2008
DOI: 10.1039/b805251d
Redox and acid–base properties of dispersed oxide nanostructures change markedly as their local
structure and electronic properties vary with domain size. These changes give rise to catalytic
behavior, site structures, and reaction chemistries often unavailable on bulk crystalline oxides.
Turnover rates for redox and acid catalysis vary as oxide domains evolve from isolated monomers
to two-dimensional oligomers, and ultimately into clusters with bulk-like properties. These
reactivity changes reﬂect the ability of oxide domains to accept or redistribute electron density in
kinetically-relevant reduction steps, in the formation of temporary acid sites via reductive
processes, and in the stabilization of cationic transition states. Reduction steps are favored by
low-lying empty orbitals prevalent in larger clusters, which also favor electron delocalization,
stable anions, and strong Brønsted acidity. Isomerization of xylenes and alkanes, elimination
reactions of alkanols, and oxidation of alkanes to alkenes on V, Mo, Nb, and W oxide domains
are used here to demonstrate the remarkable catalytic diversity made available by changes in
domain size. The reactive and disordered nature of small catalytic domains introduces signiﬁcant
challenges in their synthesis and their structural and mechanistic characterization, which require
in situ probes and detailed kinetic analysis. The local structure and electronic properties of these
materials must be probed during catalysis and their catalytic function be related to speciﬁc
kinetically-relevant steps. Structural uniformity can be imposed on oxide clusters by the use of
polyoxometalate clusters with thermodynamically stable and well-deﬁned size and connectivity.
These clusters provide the compositional diversity and the structural ﬁdelity required to develop
composition-function relations from synergistic use of experiments and theory. In these clusters,
the valence and electronegativity of the central atom aﬀects the acid strength of the
polyoxometalate clusters and the rate constants for acid catalyzed elementary steps via the speciﬁc
stabilization of cationic transition states in isomerization and elimination reactions.
Introduction
The structure, electronic properties, and catalytic function of
small oxide domains depend sensitively on their size and
Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California,
Berkeley, CA, USA. E-mail: iglesia@berkeley.edu;
Fax: 510-642-4778; Tel: 510-642-9673
Josef Macht
Josef Macht received his Di-
ploma in Chemical Engineer-
ing
at
the
Technical
University
of
Munich
in
2003. Since then, he has been
involved in the study of acid-
catalyzed rearrangements of
hydrocarbons
and
alcohols
on solid acids as part of his
doctoral research in the De-
partment of Chemical Engi-
neering at the University of
California at Berkeley. His
research
brings
together
experimental and theoretical
approaches to elucidate the
mechanism and structural requirements for selective rearrange-
ments of organic molecules on active surfaces in inorganic
solids.
Enrique Iglesia
Enrique Iglesia is Chancellor
Professor of Chemical Engi-
neering at the University of
California, Berkeley, a Fa-
culty Scientist at the E. O.
Lawrence Berkeley National
Laboratory, and the Director
of
the
Berkeley
Catalysis
Center. He is Editor-in-Chief
of the Journal of Catalysis
and a member of the National
Academy of Engineering. His
research group addresses the
synthesis and structural and
functional assessment of inor-
ganic solids useful as catalysts
for chemical reactions relevant to energy conversion, synthesis of
fuels and petrochemicals, and prevention or remediation of
environmental impact.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343 | 5331
PERSPECTIVE
www.rsc.org/pccp | Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online / Journal Homepage / Table of Contents for this issue
dimensionality, on their composition, and on their speciﬁc
connectivity to less active oxides typically used as supports.1–5
Here, we examine these eﬀects in the context of acid and
oxidation reactions, two chemistries that share more than their
catalysis by metal oxides. In fact, both types of reactions
require that oxide domains accept electron density to form
active Brønsted sites3 and to stabilize activated complexes4 in
steps that often limit rates for such reactions.
The number of compositions of matter is restricted by
possible combinations of elements. Their stable crystalline
forms are constrained further by thermodynamics, through
the relative energies of chemical bonds in inorganic structures,
and by the stability of accessible crystallographic forms and
structural motifs. For any ensemble of elements, however,
changes in domain size provide functional and structural
diversity without the need for changes in composition. Small
structures may, in fact, remove crystallographic constraints
pervasive in bulk crystalline structures. We expect, and typi-
cally ﬁnd, that changes in the size and dimensionality of oxide
domains give rise to electronic properties, atomic connectiv-
ities, and surface chemistries unavailable on crystalline oxides.
Clearly, the function of inorganic solids changes as we alter
their domain size, as shown by the evolution of electronic and
optical properties in semiconductors with changes in domain size,
which allow the tuning of band gaps for a given composition in
quantum dot devices.6–8 These quantum conﬁnement eﬀects
reﬂect the eﬀect of size on the ability of semiconducting domains
to delocalize electron density; in fact, their band gaps (or HOMO-
LUMO gaps) increase as domains become smaller.7 The surfaces
of quantum dots are typically passivated with adsorbed organic
moieties to stabilize their size, structure, and composition upon
contact with ambient air. Their structures can be accurately
assessed by microscopy and diﬀraction, which give clear micro-
graphs and relatively sharp lines because of the crystalline nature
and modest size (5–10 nm) of these electronic devices.
Catalytic reaction rates, rate constants for kinetically-rele-
vant steps, and selectivities also change markedly as a given
inorganic material is treated thermally using protocols that
alter the size of the active oxide domains.1,3,5 These changes
can be attributed to electronic modiﬁcations in less direct ways
than for conﬁned quantum structures in electronic devices. The
size and local structure of inorganic domains useful as catalysts
are seldom detectable by methods that probe long-range order,
such as X-ray diﬀraction, or even by high-resolution transmis-
sion electron microscopy. Catalytic structures have reactive
surfaces, as beﬁts their role as catalysts, and their structures
often change during catalysis in striking ways. These catalytic
domains are also very small, often containing only a few atoms.
Yet, as we move from crystalline oxides to oligomers and
ultimately to isolated monomers, we have found, almost with-
out exception, marked consequences for the surface chemistry
and the catalytic function of metal oxides.1–5,9–12
The synthesis of these small catalytic structures presents
signiﬁcant challenges, but emerging methods have exploited
the anchoring of oxo-ions on hydroxylated surfaces and the
thermodynamic tendency of oxides to spread on other oxide
surfaces13 to form dispersed oxide domains. The structural
assessment of these domains is even more challenging, espe-
cially when we aim to probe accessibility, atomic connectivity,
and local structure, the features relevant for catalytic function.
The dearth of microscopy and diﬀraction evidence for struc-
ture and the frequent requirement that structure be assessed
within reactive environments have directed characterization
eﬀorts towards spectroscopies based on photons, because of
their ability to probe through relevant ﬂuids and porous solids.
Spectroscopic methods that probe complementary details
about connectivity and bonding (Raman), electronic proper-
ties (UV-visible) and oxidation state and local coordination
(X-ray absorption) have proven particularly useful. These
methods invariably give ensemble-averaged spectral data be-
cause of the non-uniform structures prevalent in typical dis-
persed oxides. Only when inorganic structures are uniform,
often because of strong thermodynamic preferences during
synthesis (e.g. in Keggin polyoxometalate clusters), these
methods allow unique and rigorous interpretations of local
structure and connectivity. Keggin-type polyoxometalate clus-
ters provide structural motifs and sizes that remain unchanged
as composition changes. Their uniform size and diverse com-
position make them ideal to elucidate the eﬀects of composi-
tion on catalytic function using experiments and quantum-
chemical methods.
This account describes our recent ﬁndings within the context
of the work of others. It includes representative examples of the
marked eﬀects of the size of dispersed oxide domains and of the
composition of Keggin-type polyoxometalate clusters on re-
activity in acid catalysis (isomerization and elimination reac-
tions) and in oxidation reactions. We do not aim to provide a
comprehensive review of the extensive literature, but strive
instead to describe some of the more general concepts required
to understand the catalytic chemistry of small oxide domains,
using the chosen examples, but with the aim to remain relevant
to acid and oxidation catalysis in general.
Spectroscopic and catalytic data indicate that the ability of
oxide domains to accept electron density increases with domain
size. These changes bring forth, in turn, marked consequences
for turnover rates and selectivity, because stoichiometric reduc-
tion events either lead to the generation of Brønsted acid sites or
because reduction events are required for the stabilization of
transition states in rate-determining C–H bond activation steps
in alkane oxidation. These reduction events beneﬁt from clusters
with low lying empty orbitals. The size of domains or clusters is
also important in acid catalysis because the formation of
cationic transition states requires the redistribution of electron
density from O–H bonds that act as Brønsted acid sites to
anionic oxide clusters. The stability of the anion increases as the
electron density derived from heterolytic cleavage of the O–H
bond is dispersed over larger or more electronegative clusters.
These connections between acid and redox catalysis and between
electronic and catalytic properties of oxide domains have been
seldom discussed, but they are, albeit retrospectively, straight-
forward and unsurprising.
Acid catalysis on dispersed tungsten oxide domains
Acids catalyze chemical reactions by stabilizing cationic tran-
sition states, typically present in organic reactions as carbe-
nium or carbonium ions. Strong acids and stable cationic
transition states require a weak conjugate base (a stable
5332 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
anionic species) as part of ion-pairs involved in the activated
complexes. Such stable anions often require cooperativity
among acid molecules, even in the liquid phase, as in the
association of H2SO4 molecules in concentrated sulfuric
acid,14 which is sensitively disrupted by dilution with water,
even at low concentrations. The negative charge required to
form cationic intermediates or transition states is stabilized by
metal-oxo domains in solid acids. Thus, the ability of oxide
domains to redistribute charge is essential for their eﬀective-
ness in acid catalysis. In the case of neutral WO3 domains, the
ability to accept additional electron density is even required
for the formation of Brønsted acid sites.
WOx domains dispersed on ZrO2 catalyze isomerization
reactions at low temperatures.15–19 The isomerization of
o-xylene involves protonation-deprotonation steps with inter-
vening methyl shifts.20,21 These pathways do not require H2,
either mechanistically or stoichiometrically. Yet, o-xylene iso-
merization rates on WOx–ZrO2 increased linearly with H2
pressure suggesting that H2 aﬀects the density of active sites
instead, as discussed in detail later. For a given H2 pressure,
isomerization rates (per W-atom) increased sharply and then
decreased abruptly as the surface density of WOx species on
ZrO2 supports increased (Fig. 1). These rates did not depend
on whether WOx surface densities were varied by changing the
amount of tungsten deposited onto ZrO2 supports (via im-
pregnation with ammonium metatungstate) or by decreasing
ZrO2 surface areas by thermal treatment after WOx deposi-
tion.1–3 The relevant catalytic function appears and then
abruptly ceases as ZrO2 surfaces become increasingly covered
by WOx species.
Maximum rates (per W atom) were observed at WOx sur-
face densities of B10 W nm2, which resemble those expected
for two-dimensional polytungstate monolayers (B7 W nm2)
from purely geometric arguments. The incipient detection of
three-dimensional WO3 clusters by Raman and UV-visible
spectroscopies (Fig. 2 and 3) at WOx surface densities above
10 W nm22 conﬁrmed the highly dispersed nature of WOx
Fig. 1
o-Xylene isomerization turnover rates (per W-atom, 523 K,
0.67 kPa o-xylene, 106 kPa H2) as a function of nominal WOx surface
density on three WOx–ZrO2 (5, 12, and 21 wt% W) samples treated in
air at 800 K. The theoretical polytungstate monolayer capacity for
ZrO2 (B7 W nm2) is shown as a vertical dashed line. Reprinted from
J. Catal., 181, D. G. Barton, S. L. Soled, G. D. Meitzner, G. A.
Fuentes and E. Iglesia, Structural and catalytic characterization of
solid acids based on zirconia modiﬁed by tungsten oxide, 57–72,
Copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Fig. 2
Ratio of intensities for Raman bands at 807 cm1 (W–O–W)
and 1019 cm1 (terminal W = O) as a function of nominal WOx
surface density for samples shown also in Fig. 1. The dashed curve
represents a smooth ﬁt through o-xylene isomerization rates (per W
atom) in Fig. 1. Reproduced with permission from J. Phys. Chem. B,
1999, 103, 630–640. Copyright 1999 American Chemical Society.
Fig. 3
Absorption edge energies of WOx–ZrO2 samples at several
oxidation temperatures and tungsten contents. Two crystalline tung-
sten oxide materials (monoclinic WO3 and ammonium metatungstate)
are shown as reference. The dashed curve represents a smooth ﬁt
through o-xylene isomerization rates (per W atom) in Fig. 1 [523 K,
0.66 kPa o-xylene, 100 kPa H2]. Reproduced with permission from J.
Phys. Chem. B, 1999, 103, 630–640. Copyright 1999 American Che-
mical Society.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343 | 5333
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
domains at lower surface densities. Rates in Fig. 1 are normal-
ized by the number of W-atoms in each sample. Thus, the
decrease in rates above 10 W nm2 reﬂects, at least in part, the
inaccessible nature of WOx centers as three-dimensional WO3
clusters form. This abrupt decrease in rate also reﬂects the
incipient formation of oxygen-deﬁcient WOx species (e.g.
WO2.9), which cannot stabilize reactive O–H groups because
hydroxyl recombination leads to the desorption of H2O and
become unreactive in acid-catalyzed reactions.3,10
We conclude that well-dispersed structures present at low
WOx surface densities (o10 W nm2) become more reactive in
acid catalysis with increasing domain size. This proposal
suggests, in turn, that W–O–W connectivity, which emerges
as isolated monotungstate species form two-dimensional oli-
gomers, is essential to form the active sites or to stabilize the
cationic transition states involved in o-xylene isomerization.
Evidence for the structural evolution suggested by these data is
provided by Raman spectra, which probe vibrations for
terminal W
Q
O bonds, prevalent in well-dispersed WOx do-
mains, and for W–O–W linkages present in two-dimensional
and three-dimensional extended WOx oligomers (Scheme 1).
The relative intensities of vibrational modes at 807 cm1 for
W–O–W structures and at 1019 cm1 for terminal W
Q
O
bonds [2] change with increasing WOx surface density in the
manner expected from a monotonic increase in W–O–W
connectivity with increasing surface coverage (Fig. 2). The
ratio of W–O–W to W
Q
O band intensities increased almost
linearly with WOx surface density, consistent with an increase
in domain size. As observed also for catalytic rates, this ratio
did not depend on whether a given WOx surface density was
achieved by increasing W content or decreasing ZrO2 surface
area (Fig. 2). We note that o-xylene isomerization rates, shown
as a dashed curve in Fig. 2, became detectable only as the
bands for W–O–W modes appeared in Raman spectra with
increasing WOx surface density.
The ubiquitous changes in optical and electronic properties
of semiconductors with domain size suggest that changes in
connectivity, dimensionality, and size with changes in WOx
surface density should give rise to concomitant shifts in the
UV-visible absorption spectrum of WOx–ZrO2 samples. The
speciﬁc probing of the near-edge spectrum, ﬁrst proposed by
Weber22 and Fournier et al.,23 avoids the complex features and
the energy-dependent scattering coeﬃcients that plague quan-
titative interpretations of electronic processes leading to ab-
sorption features above the edge for inorganic solids.
The absorption edge energies in WOx semiconductors reﬂect
ligand-to-metal charge transitions (LMCT) from the highest
occupied molecular orbitals (HOMO) in O-atoms to the lowest
unoccupied molecular orbitals (LUMO) in W atoms. Thus, this
gap, and speciﬁcally the LUMO energy, reﬂect the ability of
W-centers to accommodate the electrons transferred upon
reduction. Reduction processes are favored by low LUMO
energy levels.2,4,22,23 The electronic spectra of model Mo22 and
W2 oxides with known structure but diﬀerent cluster size and
connectivity conﬁrmed that larger and more intimately con-
nected domains (edge-shared instead of corner-shared octahe-
dra) give lower LMCT energies, consistent with more eﬀective
electron delocalization within larger WOx domains in LMCT
processes and with lower LUMO energies. The ubiquitous
quantum conﬁnement eﬀects that lead to the observed decrease
in LMCT energy with size reﬂect a decrease in particle-in-a-box
quantum localization energy (1/R2 dependence) that is counter-
balanced by a decrease in the Coulomb energy (1/R depen-
dence) for electron-hole attractive interactions.24 The strength
of these quantum size eﬀects depends on the extent to which
orbitals on two adjacent atomic centers interact and, as a
result, on the structure and composition of a given semicon-
ductor. The relative magnitude of changes in LMCT energy
with size, and the domain size at which these changes appear,
increase with decreasing eﬀective electron mass.25 As a con-
sequence, small band gap solids are more sensitive to domain
size and exhibit detectable changes in electronic properties for
larger domains than inorganic solids with larger band gaps.
Fig. 3 provides evidence for a monotonic evolution in electronic
properties (and structure), as domains evolve from monotung-
state species to two-dimensional polytungstates and ultimately to
WO3 crystallites with increasing WOx surface density. At surface
densities below 4 W nm2, the measured edge energy is high (3.49
 0.02 eV), insensitive to surface density, and smaller than in
isolated tetrahedral WO4
2 anions solvated by aqueous media
(B5 eV). Absorption energies decreased linearly from 3.49 eV to
3.16 eV, as the WOx surface density increased from 4 to
B7 W nm2 and then remained constant at 3.16  0.05 eV
above 8 W nm2.2 In this latter region, a second absorption edge
gradually emerged at 2.6 eV, which corresponds to the band gap
for crystalline WO3. The intensity of this second edge feature
increased monotonically with increasing WOx surface density, as
expected from the increasing abundance of bulk WO3 with
increasing surface density.
The constant edge energy observed at low surface densities
indicates that WOx species remain electronically isolated from
each other at these surface densities. Intimate contact with
ZrO2, however, led to edge energies smaller than for solvated
monotungstate species. The subsequent decrease in edge en-
ergies with surface coverage reﬂects the formation of inter-
connected two-dimensional oligomers. Catalytic rates became
detectable as absorption energies start to decrease with in-
creasing surface density, indicating that oligomeric species
provide the reactive surfaces required for o-xylene isomeriza-
tion catalysis.
Scheme 1
Structural evolution of supported WOx domains from
isolated
monotungstates
to
two-dimensional
polytungstate
and
three-dimensional WO3 clusters (note the increasing W–O–W con-
nectivity with increasing extent of oligomerization).
5334 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
The constant value of the absorption energy at intermediate
WOx surface densities (3.16  0.05 eV) resembles that for solvated
W12 isopolytungstate clusters (e.g. ammonium metatungstate;
AMT, Fig. 3) and W12 heteropolytungstate Keggin clusters [2].
Crystalline WO3 species were ﬁrst detected in the Raman and
electronic spectra at surface densities similar to those expected for
two-dimensional polytungstate monolayers on ZrO2. We note
that the WOx–ZrO2 edge energies coalesce into a single curve as a
function of surface density, whether the surface density was
achieved by varying W-content or the ZrO2 surface area, as also
observed for o-xylene isomerization rates and Raman spectra.
These spectroscopic methods conﬁrm the structural evolu-
tion expected as WOx surface density increases. They are
silent, however, about why domains of intermediate size are
more reactive or about why H2 is required for o-xylene
isomerization. Measurements of H2 uptakes and absorption
intensities in the pre-edge region of UV-visible spectra as a
function of WOx surface density suggest that reduction of
WOx domains is required to form acid sites.3 Reversible H2
chemisorption uptakes as a function of WOx surface density at
catalytic temperatures (523 K) parallel o-xylene isomerization
rates (Fig. 4). Uptakes increased linearly with increasing H2
pressure, reached maximum values at WOx surface densities of
B 10 W nm2, and then decreased, as also found for catalytic
rates.1 These data suggest that neutral WOx domains chemi-
sorb H2 to form reduced domains, such as those depicted
schematically in Scheme 2, during contact with H2 at tem-
peratures relevant to xylene isomerization catalysis. The de-
crease in H2 chemisorption uptakes at high WOx surface
densities corresponds to a decrease in dispersion and the
formation of oxygen deﬁcient WO3x species that do not
reduce further or chemisorb hydrogen.3
We note that H2 chemisorption leads to the reduction of
WOx domains and the parallel addition of charge-balancing
protons forming the Brønsted acid sites required for o-xylene
isomerization turnovers. This proposal is consistent with the
amount of H2 chemisorbed at reaction conditions (523 K,
100 kPa H2), which increased in parallel as catalytic rates
increased with WOx surface density (Fig. 4).
Fig. 4 shows that WOx domains present at surface densities
below 3–4 W nm2 do not chemisorb H2 at 523 K. They also
do not catalyze o-xylene isomerization reactions at detectable
rates. H2 chemisorption causes reduction of WOx domains, a
process favored by low LUMO energies. Low-lying LUMO
levels lead, in turn, to lower edge energies in the UV-visible
spectra, because HOMO levels at O-atoms remain relatively
constant with domain size.26 Thus, it appears that larger
domains, with LUMO energies below those in isolated WOx
species, undergo stoichiometric reduction more readily and
lead to catalysts with a larger number of Brønsted acid sites.
Reduction events can be detected as ‘‘color centers’’ in
semiconductors, because of the placement of electrons in d-
orbitals, typically empty for cations present in their highest
oxidation state. These electrons are involved in d–d transitions
at energies below the edge.2 For domains with several metal
centers, reduction also introduces inter-valence charge transfer
(IVCT) processes in the pre-edge region. W6+ species with
empty d-orbitals acquire d-electrons upon reduction and show
d–d and IVCT transitions at photon energies below those
required for LMCT processes.
Contact with H2 at catalytic conditions led to detectable
absorption intensity in the pre-edge region because of these
d–d and IVCT transitions, consistent with reduction events.2
The extent of reduction, measured from the intensity of these
pre-edge features, increased with increasing WOx surface den-
sity. No reduction was detected at surface densities that lead to
the predominant presence of monotungstate species and to
undetectable o-xylene isomerization rates. The pre-edge features
in the UV-visible spectrum during H2 treatments at higher
temperatures (or at catalytic temperatures for samples with
more easily reduced bulk-like WO3 clusters) may also reﬂect
the formation of oxygen-deﬁcient and reduced WO3x species
formed via dehydroxylation of W–OH groups with a concomi-
tant loss of Brønsted acid sites. Reduced centers in WO3 clusters
can also form via the stabilization of H-atoms as bulk tungsten
bronzes, which contain reduced centers but with largely
Fig. 4
Reversible H2 uptakes at 523 K and 45 kPa H2 on WOx–ZrO2
samples oxidized at 1073 K, reduced in H2 at 523 K for 1 h, and
evacuated at 523 K, plotted together with a smooth ﬁt through
o-xylene isomerization rates (per W atom) in Fig. 1 as a function of
WOx surface density. Reprinted from J. Catal., 181, D. G. Barton, S.
L. Soled, G. D. Meitzner, G. A. Fuentes and E. Iglesia, Structural and
catalytic characterization of solid acids based on zirconia modiﬁed by
tungsten oxide, 57–72, Copyright 1999, with permission from Elsevier.
Scheme
2
The
formation
of
bronze-like
nanostructures
with
Brønsted acid sites via H2 chemisorption on neutral WOx domains.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343 | 5335
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
inaccessible hydrogen atoms. As a result, correlations between o-
xylene isomerization rates and pre-edge intensities become
inaccurate for samples containing bulk-like three-dimensional
WO3 clusters.3 The substantial absence of a bulk region in two-
dimensional polytungstates allows protons to remain accessible
at external surfaces and leads to the unique ability of these
polytungstate species to catalyze reactions requiring Brønsted
acid sites.
The useful properties of dispersed WOx domains as acid
catalysts and the marked eﬀects of WOx surface density on
catalytic rates are not unique to o-xylene isomerization reac-
tions.10 2-Butanol dehydration rates also increased with WOx
surface density and then decreased as surface densities in-
creased above 8–10 W nm2 (Fig. 5). These eﬀects are
observed, however, at lower temperatures than those required
for o-xylene isomerization catalysis or H2 chemisorption. 2-
Butanol dehydration rates, in fact, did not depend on H2
pressure (0–100 kPa) (Fig. 5); yet, the dependence of rates on
WOx surface density was identical to that measured for o-
xylene isomerization, where the eﬀects of domain size reﬂect
the tendency of WOx domains to be reduced by H2 during
catalysis (cf. Fig. 1 and 5) so as to form the required Brønsted
acid sites.
Reduced centers were detected in UV-visible spectra mea-
sured during 2-butanol dehydration catalysis, even without
added H2. The intensity of pre-edge features was unaﬀected
by the concurrent presence of H2. Fig. 6 shows the intensity of
pre-edge features during 2-butanol dehydration as a function
of WOx surface density. Pre-edge intensities increased in
parallel with 2-butanol dehydration rates, suggesting that
species responsible for such features act as active sites or
intermediates.10 These data show that 2-butanol itself acts as
the reductant during catalysis, with the concurrent formation
of trace amounts of ketones, and that it is more eﬀective at
forming reduced centers than either o-xylene or H2. The more
reducible nature of larger WOx domains leads to accessible
reduced centers that increase and then decrease in number with
increasing WOx surface density. These reduced centers form via
the stoichiometric use of 2-butanol as a sacriﬁcial reductant,
but require the continuous presence of H2 and higher tempera-
tures when less reactive o-xylene species are used as reactants.
We propose that reduction of neutral WOx domains leads to
active acid sites and that 2-butanol dehydration requires such
Brønsted acid sites. Both Lewis and Brønsted acid sites,
however, can catalyze alkanol dehydration reactions.27–32
Measurements of Brønsted and Lewis acid site densities must
be
carried
out
during
2-butanol
dehydration,
because
2-butanol forms the relevant Brønsted acid sites. Acid sites
were titrated during 2-butanol dehydration by 2,6-di-tert-
butylpyridine, an organic base that is protonated by Brønsted
acid sites, but which cannot coordinate to Lewis acid centers
because of the steric bulk imposed by the tert-butyl groups.10,17
In this manner, the concentration and the involvement of
Brønsted acid sites (instead of Lewis acid sites) in 2-butanol
dehydration can be determined from the number of titrants
adsorbed and the catalytic consequences of their adsorption.
2-Butanol dehydration rates decreased linearly as the number
of adsorbed 2,6-di-tert-butylpyridine molecules increased, con-
sistent with the involvement of Brønsted acid sites.10 The number
of titrant molecules required to suppress dehydration rates
increased as the WOx surface density and the initial 2-butanol
dehydration rates increased in parallel (Fig. 7). Catalytic rates
Fig. 5
Initial 2-butanol dehydration rate (per W atom) at 373 K as a
function of WOx surface density for two tungsten concentrations
(WO3 basis), 15 wt% WO3 (K) and 30 wt% WO3 (’), using He
(100.8 kPa) as the carrier. The 30% WO3 sample is also shown with H2
(100.8 kPa) as the carrier (m). Reprinted from J. Catal., 205, C. D.
Baertsch, K. T. Komala, Y. H. Chua and E. Iglesia, Genesis of
Brønsted acid sites during dehydration of 2-butanol on tungsten oxide
catalysts, 44–57, Copyright 2002, with permission from Elsevier.
Fig. 6
Integrated UV-Vis absorption area as a function of WOx
surface density during 2-butanol dehydration catalysis at the reaction
conditions for the data in Fig. 5 plotted together with a dashed curve
corresponding to 2-butanol dehydration data from Fig. 5. Reprinted
from J. Catal., 205, C. D. Baertsch, K. T. Komala, Y. H. Chua and E.
Iglesia, Genesis of Brønsted acid sites during dehydration of 2-butanol
on tungsten oxide catalysts, 44–57, Copyright 2002, with permission
from Elsevier.
5336 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
depend more sensitively on surface densities than titrant uptakes
because both Brønsted acid site densities and their reactivity are
highest for intermediate surface densities (see also Fig. 9).33
The identity of the support can inﬂuence the reducibility and
electronic properties of small oxide domains dispersed on their
surfaces because of the intimate contact inherent in the
stabilization of such small domains. Catalytic 2-butanol dehy-
dration rates, Brønsted acid site densities, and the dynamics
and extent of reduction were measured on WOx domains
supported on ZrO2, Al2O3, SiO2, and SnO2.33 These supports
were chosen because their electronic properties (inferred from
their band gaps) would allow diﬀerent extents of electronic
communication with WOx domains. Electron delocalization
onto the support would beneﬁt from support conduction
bands similar in energy to the LUMO in WOx domains. The
conduction band energy for the supports decreases,34 and the
WOx-support band matching improves, in the order SiO2 4
Al2O3 4 ZrO24 SnO2, as the reducibility increases and the
band gap decreases for support materials.
On WOx–Al2O3, 2-butanol dehydration rates (per W atom)
increased with increasing WOx surface density and reached
maximum values at WOx surface densities (7–10 W nm2)
(Fig. 8)33 similar to those required for two-dimensional poly-
tungstates, as also observed in WOx–ZrO2. UV-visible edge
energies indicate that WOx domains grow with WOx surface
density and ultimately lead to WO3 crystallites on all supports.33
The selective titration of Brønsted acid sites by sterically-
hindered 2,6-di-tert-butylpyridine showed that 2-butanol dehy-
dration reactions require Brønsted acid sites on WOx domains
for all supports. Pre-edge features appear in the UV-visible
spectra of WOx–Al2O3 samples during 2-butanol hydration
and their intensity increased with WOx surface density, in
parallel
with measured
Brønsted
acid site densities
and
Fig. 9
Dehydration rates (per W atom) as a function of Brønsted acid
site density. Initial dehydration rates were determined by 2-butanol
dehydration reactions, and the dehydration rates shown are extra-
polated to zero conversion and the small residual rates from on Lewis
acid sites are rigorously subtracted). The error introduced by taking
the residual rates without extrapolation to zero reactant conversion is
assumed to be minimal, since these rates were obtained at very low
conversions. Brønsted acid site densities were determined by titration
with
2,6-di-tert-butylpyridine.
Diﬀerent
catalysts
are
shown:
WOx–Al2O3 (K), WOx–ZrO2 (’),WOx–SiO2 (m) and WOx–SnO2
(.). Reprinted from J. Catal., 227, J. Macht, C. D. Baertsch, M. May-
Lozano, S. L. Soled, Y. Wang and E. Iglesia, Support eﬀects on
Brønsted acid site densities and alcohol dehydration turnover rates on
tungsten oxide domains, 479–491, Copyright 2004, with permission
from Elsevier.
Fig. 7
Brønsted acid site densities (per W atom) measured for
WOx–ZrO2 samples from 2,6-di-tert-butylpyridine titration during 2-
butanol dehydration catalysis at the same reaction conditions as the
data in Fig. 5; 2-butanol dehydration rates from Fig. 5 are shown as a
dashed curve. Reprinted from J. Catal., 205, C. D. Baertsch, K. T.
Komala, Y. H. Chua and E. Iglesia, Genesis of Brønsted acid sites
during dehydration of 2-butanol on tungsten oxide catalysts, 44–57,
Copyright 2002, with permission from Elsevier.
Fig. 8
Initial 2-butanol dehydration rates (per W atom) at 373 K as a
function of WOx surface density [0.5 kPa 2-butanol, 100.8 kPa He].
Catalysts shown: WOx–Al2O3 (K), WOx–ZrO2 (’), WOx–SiO2 (m)
and WOx–SnO2 (.). Reprinted from J. Catal., 227, J. Macht, C. D.
Baertsch, M. May-Lozano, S. L. Soled, Y. Wang and E. Iglesia,
Support eﬀects on Brønsted acid site densities and alcohol dehydration
turnover rates on tungsten oxide domains, 479–491, Copyright 2004,
with permission from Elsevier.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343 | 5337
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
dehydration rates (per W atom).33 These processes resemble
those detected on WOx–ZrO2, indicating that temporary acid
sites form via reduction of neutral WOx domains on all supports.
Dehydration turnover rates (per Brønsted acid site) were
unaﬀected by the identity of the support, as shown by the
dehydration rate (per W atom) curve as a function of Brønsted
acid density (Fig. 9). The convex character of the dehydration rate
curve implies that, on all supports, the turnover rate increases as
the density of Brønsted acid site increases. This reﬂects either an
overestimation of active Brønsted acid sites at low Brønsted acid
densities or more reactive acid sites at high site densities.33 For a
given WOx surface density, however, the number of reduced
centers and the density of Brønsted acid sites (but not their
intrinsic reactivity) were sensitive to the identity of the support
(Fig. 9). Reduced centers, acting as Brønsted acid sites, were more
abundant for WOx domains supported on ZrO2 than for those
supported on Al2O3, because of the more eﬀective electronic
isolation of WOx on more insulating and non-reducible Al2O3
supports. Such electronic isolation restricts delocalization to the
domains themselves and makes domains dispersed on Al2O3 more
resistant to reduction than on ZrO2. Supports inﬂuence the ability
of WOx domains to delocalize electron density during reduction
processes required to form Brønsted acid sites. Supports with
smaller band gaps (e.g., SnO2 and ZrO2) give larger Brønsted acid
site densities and more reducible WOx domains than insulating
oxides with larger band gaps (e.g., SiO2 and Al2O3). As a result,
data for WOx domains on the latter supports appear towards
lower values of the abscissa in Fig. 9.
We conclude from these data that the ability of WOx
domains to form Brønsted acid sites via stoichiometric reduc-
tion processes depends on their size and dimensionality, which
increase monotonically with increasing WOx surface density.
At surface densities signiﬁcantly above monolayer coverages,
dehydroxylation events and the formation of tungsten bronzes
with inaccessible protons ultimately lead to a decrease in
Brønsted acid site density (per W atom) as WOx surface density
increases. These processes are also inﬂuenced by the ability of
supports to delocalize charge beyond the WOx domains them-
selves. Reduction depends on the ability of WOx domains to
accept electron density, which depends in turn on their size and
ability to communicate with supports. These properties are
reﬂected in the energies required to induce ligand-to-metal
charge transfer from O-atoms to W atoms in supported WOx
domains. In some sense, the observed changes in UV-visible
edge energies, which we initially meant to use as an indirect
descriptor of domain size, provide instead a more direct
measure of the ability of WOx domains to undergo reduction,
because such energies reﬂect the position of the LUMO, where
additional electrons must be placed upon reduction. The
position of this LUMO is of fundamental importance in both
chemical reduction and in the electronic transitions measured
in the UV-visible spectrum, and leads to the marked conse-
quences for acid catalysis on these oxide domains.
Acid catalysis on SiO2 supported Keggin-type
polyoxometalate clusters
Keggin-type polyoxometalate (POM) clusters (H8nXn+-
W12O40, where X = P5+, Si4+, Al3+, Co2+) are composed
of neutral W12O36 shells encapsulating an Xn+O4
(8n) anion
surrounded by (8n) charge-balancing protons. These clusters
have, except for a central atom X, the same composition
(HxWOy) and distorted WO6 octahedral building blocks as
supported WOx domains. These materials have permanent
Brønsted acid sites because of the charge imbalance imposed
by the encapsulated Xn+O4
(8n) anion. Stoichiometric reduc-
tion processes that form Hd+(WO3)n
d species are not re-
quired for Brønsted acidity in these samples. In contrast with
the disordered and poorly deﬁned WOx domains discussed
above, the well-deﬁned structure, composition, and size of
H8nXn+W12O40 POM clusters allow reliable assessments of
composition-function relations using experiments and theory.
2-Butanol dehydration rate constants reﬂect the enthalpy
and entropy of the carbenium-ion transition state relative to
those for hydrogen-bonded adsorbed 2-butanol molecules
involved in kinetically-relevant elimination steps. These rate
constants were measured from rate data using an equation
derived from elementary steps that include adsorption of 2-
butanol via H-bonding, elimination of water via E1 pathways,
desorption of the bound butoxides, and the formation of
unreactive butanol dimers.35 Elimination rate constants de-
creased with increasing deprotonation enthalpy (DPE) (DHrxn:
AH - A + H+; AH is the neutral cluster; A is the
deprotonated POM), a rigorous measure of acid strength
(Fig. 10) estimated from density functional calculations.35
DPE values for H8nXn+W12O40 POM clusters increased
(1087 kJ mol1 (H3PW12O40), 1143 kJ mol1 (H6Co W12O40)
as the valence of the central atom X decreased and the number
of protons concurrently increased, indicative of a concomitant
decrease in acid strength.
Fig. 10
2-Butanol decomposition rate constant k2 at 343 K as a
function of deprotonation enthalpy, deﬁned as DHrxn of HA - A +
H+ (HA is the acid, an A is the conjugate base) and calculated by
DFT. (H3PW12O40-SiO2 (K), H4SiW12O40-SiO2 (’), H5AlW12O40-
SiO2 (m) and H6CoW12O40-SiO2 (.) (0.04 POM nm2) and H-BEA ().
J. Macht, M. J. Janik, M. Neurock and E. Iglesia, Catalytic Con-
sequences
of
Composition
in
Polyoxometalate
Clusters
with
Keggin Structure, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2007, 46, 7864–7868.
Copyright Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA. Reproduced with
permission.
5338 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
Keggin-type POM clusters are stronger Brønsted acids than
zeolites in their proton form (DPE: 1171 kJ mol1 (zeolite
Y)—1200 kJ mol1 (ZSM-5))36 and H2SO4 (1300 kJ mol1).
Their DPE values also span a wider range (56 kJ mol1)35
than for zeolite structures (Y, CHA, MOR, and MFI—
29 kJ mol1).36 The higher DPE of Brønsted acid sites in H-
BEA led to lower values of the rate constant of the elimination
step (Fig. 10) than on POM clusters. The observed increase in
DPE with decreasing valence of the central atom X in H8nXn+-
W12O40 Keggin clusters also led to a concomitant increase in
elimination activation barriers calculated by DFT methods,
consistent with the observed decrease in experimental rate
constants for elimination steps. The monotonic decrease in 2-
butanol dehydration rate constants with DPE (Fig. 10) suggests
that elimination rate constants can be used to assess acid
strength and DPE values for many Brønsted acid catalysts
whose ill-deﬁned structure prevents rigorous theoretical DPE
or acid strength estimates, such as the dispersed Hd+-
(WO3)n
d species discussed in the previous section. In such
cases, measured values, rigorously normalized by the number
of protons accessible during reaction can be used to estimate
DPE from the value in the abscissa of Fig. 10 corresponding to
the measured rate constants.
Deprotonation of Brønsted acids requires the redistribution
of electron density from the A–H bond in the parent acid
cluster throughout the entire anionic cluster A. In contrast
with reduction processes, deprotonation events maintain a
constant number of electrons within the cluster. DPE values
decrease (and the acids become stronger) as the two electrons
involved in A–H bonds are redistributed over larger anions.
Deprotonation of H8nXn+W12O40 increases the electron
density evenly over the entire (H7nXn+W12O40) anion.37
In contrast, charge is highly localized on inorganic insulators,
such as the silicate framework in zeolites, and deprotonation
enthalpies are therefore higher and Brønsted acid sites weaker
in zeolites than in POM clusters. The estimation of DPE
values from electronic structure methods is straightforward
for well-deﬁned clusters, but their interpretation in terms of
the electronic structure, electron distribution, and composition
of the acid is more challenging.
For H8nYn+O4 (Y = Cl7+, S6+, P5+ and Si4+) and
H8nXn+W12O40 (X = P5+, Si4+, Al3+, Co2+) acids, we ﬁnd
that DPE values decrease as the negative charge in O-atoms
decreases concurrently with an increase in the valence of X or
Y in H8nXn+W12O40 and H8nYn+O4, respectively, and a
decrease in the number of charge-balancing protons.38 DPE
values also decrease as the size of the anion increases, because
the additional electron is delocalized over larger domains.
DPE values are smaller by 304 kJ mol1 and 376 kJ mol1
and the diﬀerences in DPE values decrease from 90 kJ mol1
to 18 kJ mol1 for H3PW12O40 and H4SiW12O40, respectively,
compared to their respective non-encapsulated analogs—
H3PO4 and H4SiO4. These diﬀerences clearly illustrate the
critical role of electron delocalization, which occurs in POM
clusters over a much larger W12O36 shell38 than for the bare
acids, in decreasing DPE values and increasing acid strength.
The ill-deﬁned structure of dispersed WOx catalysts pre-
cludes rigorous estimates of their DPE values as they reduce
and form acidic O–H species. Rate constants (per accessible
proton) for 2-butanol dehydration on WOx–ZrO2 (1.35 
103(s H+)1;10 6.8 W nm2) are similar to those on H-BEA
(1.1  103(s H+)1)35 at 343 K, but much smaller than on
H3PW12O40 (60  103(s H+)1).35 We conclude that
Hd+(WO3)n
d species on WOx–ZrO2 are similar in acid
strength and DPE to zeolites (DPE B1200 kJ mol1) and
much weaker acids than Keggin POM clusters.
Marked eﬀects of DPE values have also been observed for
bifunctional alkane isomerization, carried out on physical
mixtures of Pt/Al2O3 and the corresponding acids. These
mixtures ensure that the metal dehydrogenation function
establishes alkane-alkene quasi-equilibrium and that the iso-
merization step on the acid is the sole kinetically-relevant step.
This kinetically-relevant isomerization step involves a proto-
nated cyclopropyl species in the transition state.39 The iso-
merization rate constant decreased with increasing DPE in a
manner reminiscent of that observed for 2-butanol elimination
rate constants.40 Isomerization rate constants decreased as the
valence of the central atom X on H8nXn+W12O40 POM
clusters decreased and DPE values concurrently increased.
As in the case of 2-butanol dehydration, isomerization rate
constants on WOx–ZrO2 and H-BEA were similar to each
other, but much smaller than on any H8nXn+W12O40 POM
clusters. Thus, the ranking of acid strength based on the earlier
studies of 2-butanol dehydration remains rigorously applic-
able to reactions of unrelated molecules. These reactions are
connected only by the common requirement for carbocationic
transition states in their respective kinetically-relevant steps.
Oxidation catalysis on supported transition metal
oxide domains
We consider next the eﬀects of cluster size, composition, and
support, which were discussed earlier for acid catalysis, for the
case of oxidation pathways. Turnover rates for such reactions
should depend sensitively on the ability of oxide domains to
undergo reduction-oxidation cycles, which must occur during
each catalytic turnover. In contrast with redox cycles, turn-
overs in acid catalysis do not lead to an increase in the number
of electrons in the anionic conjugate base during protonation
events. In dispersed WOx clusters, stoichiometric reduction
events that form acidic Hd+(WO3)n
d species are required only
to form Brønsted acid sites, but electron transfer does not
occur in protonation-deprotonation steps. Oxidation turn-
overs, in contrast, require the formal reduction of metal
centers in oxide clusters and an increase in the number of
electrons that must be stabilized within such clusters. Most
oxidation reactions that occur via Mars-van Krevelen redox
cycles are limited by the reduction step within catalytic
sequences, suggesting that turnover rates should increase as
clusters become increasingly able to stabilize additional elec-
trons, which would lead to more stable activated complexes
for such reduction steps.
The eﬀects of oxide domain size on reducibility, which reﬂect,
in turn, concomitant changes in the LUMO energies of the
oxide domains, are evident in oxidative dehydrogenation of
alkanes4,5,11,12 and dimethylether41,42 on Mo, V, Nb, and W
oxides, and in methanol oxidation on dispersed RuOx
43 and
PdOx
44
domains.
We
choose
here
oxidative
alkane
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343 | 5339
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
dehydrogenation catalysis to illustrate the marked eﬀects of
surface density and domain size on the electronic properties
and catalytic oxidation reactivity of dispersed transition metal
oxides. These examples illustrate the fundamental eﬀect of size
on the energies of ligand-to-metal charge transfer processes and
on the ability of oxide domains to stabilize additional electron
density during stoichiometric reduction and redox cycles.
Oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes (ODH) involves pri-
mary and secondary reactions, the rates of which can be
measured from the eﬀects of residence time on formation rates
of alkenes and COx (CO and CO2).11 Catalytic turnovers for
oxidative dehydrogenation of MoOx and VOx proceed via
reduction-oxidation cycles.45–48 These cycles involve the removal
and replacement of lattice oxygen atoms via pathways ﬁrst
proposed by Mars and van Krevelen.49 Reaction rates are
limited by the reduction step, which involves the activation of
the weakest C–H bond in alkanes on a pair of lattice oxygen
atoms at the surface of reducible oxide domains.50 This catalytic
sequence, depicted in Scheme 4, requires transition states that
introduce signiﬁcant electron density into oxide domains during
C–H bond activation. Thus, the ability to accept electron
density, which depends on the position of the LUMO (DE2;
Scheme 3) is likely to lead to signiﬁcant catalytic consequences.
These eﬀects of oxide surface density and domain size on
catalytic function are illustrated ﬁrst for the speciﬁc case of
MoOx structures supported on Al2O3, but the general ﬁndings
and conclusions remain valid for other supports and also for
VOx and WOx domains.4 UV-visible spectra show the
expected decrease in absorption energy with increasing MoOx
surface density (Fig. 11). Raman and X-ray absorption spectra
detect the concurrent evolution from isolated monomolybdate
species, to polymolybdates, and ultimately to crystalline
MoO3 structures,4 as MoOx surface density increases. Thus,
as in the case of WOx domains discussed earlier, MoOx
domains increase monotonically in size and dimensionality
with increasing surface density and the HOMO-LUMO gap
concurrently decreases.
The catalytic consequences of this evolution in size, struc-
ture, and electronic properties are shown in Fig. 12, in which
oxidative dehydrogenation rates (per Mo atom) are shown for
propane reactants as a function of Mo surface density for
domains dispersed on Al2O3. The concurrent changes ob-
served in absorption edge energies and in the stabilization of
the transition state for C–H bond cleavage and O–H and C–O
bond formation reﬂect the increased ability of larger domains
Scheme 4
Catalytic sequence for oxidative dehydrogenation of pro-
pane on oxides. Reprinted from J. Catal., 209, K. Chen, A. T. Bell and
E. Iglesia, The relationship between the electronic and redox proper-
ties of dispersed metal oxides and their turnover rates in oxidative
dehydrogenation reactions, 35–42, Copyright 2002, with permission
from Elsevier.
Scheme 3
Thermochemical cycle for the formation of reduced
centers.
Fig. 11
Dependence of the UV-visible absorption edge energy on the
Mo surface density of MoOx–Al2O3 catalysts under ambient condi-
tions. Reprinted from J. Catal., 198, K. Chen, S. Xie, A. T. Bell and E.
Iglesia, Structure and properties of oxidative dehydrogenation cata-
lysts based on MoO3/Al2O3, 232–242, Copyright 2001, with permis-
sion from Elsevier.
Fig. 12
Eﬀects of Mo surface density on initial propene formation
rates (per Mo-atom) on MoOx–Al2O3 (703 K, 14 kPa C3H8, 1.7 kPa
O2). Reprinted from J. Catal., 198, K. Chen, S. Xie, A. T. Bell and E.
Iglesia, Structure and properties of oxidative dehydrogenation cata-
lysts based on MoO3/Al2O3, 232–242, Copyright 2001, with permis-
sion from Elsevier.
5340 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
to accept electrons, consistent with their lower lying LUMO
states and higher electron aﬃnity. These trends are also
consistent with the linear free energy relationships between
reaction enthalpies and activation energies commonly ob-
served in oxidation catalysis. For a given reactant (DE1,
X–H bond dissociation energy and H ionization energy,
endothermic) and cluster (with protonation enthalpy DE3,
exothermic), a lower lying LUMO (DE2) leads to a more
exothermic H abstraction reaction (Scheme 3) (DHC–H,abstr
= DE1 + DE2 + DE3) and activation barrier (Eact,CH,abst)
assuming an Evans-Polyani correlation of Eact,C–H,abst and
DHCH,abstr according to Eact,CH,abst = E0 + aDHC–H,abstr,
where E0 and a are constants.
Propane oxidative dehydrogenation rates (per Mo-atom)
increased with increasing surface density and decreasing edge
energy, as the latter approaches values typical of saturated
polymolybdate monolayers. These trends indicate that the
reactivity of MoOx surfaces increases as larger domains be-
come increasingly able to accept electron density and to
stabilize transition states required in rate-determining reduc-
tion steps relative to smaller domains with higher-lying
LUMO states. Ultimately, higher surface densities lead to
the formation of crystalline MoOx with inaccessible Mo
centers, which renders the use of the total number of Mo
atoms inappropriate as a measure of the number of active
sites. As a result, turnover rates reported on the basis of Mo
atoms inevitably and ultimately decrease with increasing
MoOx surface densities (Fig. 12) as a result of the prevalence
of inaccessible Mo-oxo species
These catalytic trends resemble those reported previously
for oxidative dehydrogenation of propane46 and ethane47 on
VOx domains and for reactions of propane on MoOx domains
dispersed on other supports.45 Similar trends have also been
observed for oxidative dehydrogenation of oxygenates on VOx
and MoOx domains41,42 and on more reducible RuOx do-
mains.43 The observed eﬀects of domain size on catalysis
parallel similar eﬀects on the dynamics of their incipient
stoichiometric reduction in H2, a process that leads to the
formation of isolated vacancies and which resembles the
elementary steps involved in the reduction part of catalytic
dehydrogenation cycles.45 Stoichiometric reduction rates in-
creased with increasing MoOx and VOx surface densities,
consistent with a concurrent decrease in their LUMO energies.
We consider next two questions brought forth by our
observations and by our hypotheses to account for them.
The ﬁrst matter concerns whether a fundamental relation
between LUMO levels and chemical reduction tendencies
extends more broadly and beyond speciﬁc active oxides and
supports. The second one addresses the demonstration that
larger domains are indeed more reducible than smaller do-
mains, and thus more reduced during oxidative dehydrogena-
tion catalysis. Both questions are addressed by UV-visible
spectroscopy, used here to measure the electronic properties
and the extent of reduction of oxide domains during treatment
and during oxidative dehydrogenation catalysis. Turnover
rates on Mo, V, Nb, and W oxides dispersed on various
supports were measured as a function of their ligand-to-metal
charge transfer energies to address the ﬁrst point. The ﬁrst
reported measurements of the number of reduced active
centers during oxidative dehydrogenation catalysis were used
to establish the role of reducibility during oxidation catalysis
and the increasing prevalence of reduced centers as turnover
rates increased with the surface density and domain size of the
active oxides.
The mechanistic connections between oxidative dehydro-
genation rates and the LMCT absorption edge in the electro-
nic spectra of dispersed oxides are evident from the data
shown in Fig. 13. Catalytic turnover rates on VOx, MoOx,
WOx, and NbOx domains dispersed predominantly as mono-
mers or two-dimensional oligomers on various supports
(Al2O3, ZrO2, MgO) are shown as a function of their corres-
ponding LMCT energies. For all active oxides, ODH turnover
rates (per active metal atom) increased monotonically as
LMCT energies decreased. The exponential dependence evi-
dent from the data in Fig. 13 suggests a relation between the
energy required for these electronic transitions and the activa-
tion energies for kinetically-relevant steps, the activation of
methylene C–H bonds in propane reactants using lattice
oxygens for this reaction. This correlation includes not only
MoOx domains on Al2O3 (depicted in Fig. 11 and 12) but also
the other active oxides on various supports. These trends
reﬂect the role of LUMO energies in determining the ability
of oxide domains to accept electrons during reduction events
that limit alkane dehydrogenation rates.
These results indicate that the stability of activated com-
plexes in C–H bond dissociation steps depends sensitively on
the ability of oxide domains to accept electrons during C–H
bond activation. The UV-visible absorption edge energy de-
creases as the energy level of the LUMO decreases and as the
electron aﬃnity of the cluster (Scheme 3, DE2) increases. These
eﬀects inﬂuence, in turn, the energies of intermediates and
transition states that require electron transfer to the cluster.
They lead to the exponential dependence of propane ODH
Fig. 13
Dependence of propane turnover rate (703 K, 14 kPa C3H8,
1.7 kPa O2, balance He) on the UV-visible absorption edge energy for
MOx catalysts. Reprinted from J. Catal., 209, K. Chen, A. T. Bell and
E. Iglesia, The relationship between the electronic and redox proper-
ties of dispersed metal oxides and their turnover rates in oxidative
dehydrogenation reactions, 35–42, Copyright 2002, with permission
from Elsevier.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343 | 5341
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
turnover rates on LMCT absorption edge energies evident
from Fig. 13. The identity of the metal has the strongest
impact on both LMCT absorption edge energy and propane
ODH turnover rates. More reducible supports and higher
surface densities lead to higher propane ODH turnover rates
for a given element and to lower edge energies and lower-lying
LUMO states, which stabilize both the products and the
transition state in C–H bond activation steps (Scheme 3 and
4). MoOx and VOx domains can be made similar in reactivity,
in spite of their diﬀerent chemical identities, by dispersing the
latter as smaller domains or onto less reducible supports than
the former. Thus, we conclude that quantum conﬁnement
eﬀects, imposed by the size and electronic isolation of oxide
domains, can be used to design materials with electronic
properties and catalytic functions controlled by properties
other than chemical composition.
The detection and quantiﬁcation of reduced centers during
oxidation catalysis is a challenging task made possible by
recent studies that exploit the sensitivity of pre-edge features
to changes in orbital occupancy caused by reduction. The
extent of reduction of active centers was determined in
VOx–Al2O3 samples with a range of VOx surface densities
from the intensity of pre-edge d–d electronic transitions during
steady-state oxidative dehydrogenation of propane.50 Pre-edge
intensities were related to local electron density by using the
stoichiometric reduction of VOx by H2 and counting of
reduced centers by subsequent re-oxidation of the vacancies
formed with O2.
Fig. 14 shows the number of electrons introduced per V
during catalytic reactions as a function of the reductant/oxidant
ratio in reactants on VOx–Al2O3 samples with three diﬀerent
surface densities. The extent of reduction for all samples
(0.062–0.30 e/V) was much smaller than required for stoichio-
metric reduction of V5+ to V3+ or V4+ and increased with
increasing reductant/oxidant ratio, as required by mechanistic
considerations based on the prevalent redox cycles and the
kinetic relevance of C–H bond activation steps.50 The extent
of reduction also increased with increasing VOx surface density,
consistent with the more reducible nature and higher catalytic
reactivity of larger VOx domains and with the kinetic relevance
of the C–H bond activation step, which requires the formal
reduction of V5+ centers. This relation between the extent of
reduction during catalysis and the propene formation rates
conﬁrms the redox nature of catalytic cycles and the exclusive
kinetic relevance of the reduction part of the catalytic sequence,
in which C–H bonds are activated using lattice oxygen atoms.
Conclusions
The reactivity of supported WOx domains in acid-catalyzed
reactions depends sensitively on WOx surface density, because
of the electronic consequences of concurrent changes in do-
main size. Catalysts with intermediate WOx surface densities
gave the highest turnover rates (per W atom) for 2-butanol
dehydration and o-xylene isomerization and the highest con-
centrations of Hd+(WOx)n
d species acting as Brønsted acid
sites. These species form via reduction and protonation of
dispersed isopolytungstate domains by either H2 or alkanol
reactants. Small domains prevalent at low WOx surface den-
sities cannot reduce to form these acid sites. Extended crystal-
line WOx structures prevail at high WOx surface densities.
They give low Brønsted acid site densities (per W atom)
because of their poor dispersion and their tendency to form
oxygen-deﬁcient domains, which cannot stabilize Brønsted
acid sites. Brønsted acid site densities were higher when
WOx domains were supported on more reducible supports,
but the intrinsic reactivity of these sites did not depend on
support identity.
Keggin-type POM clusters are, in contrast to supported
WOx clusters, well-deﬁned in size, atomic connectivity, and
composition. These features combined with rigorous assess-
ment of the mechanistic basis for their reactivity allow us to
probe fundamental relations among composition, structure,
and catalytic function. POM clusters with diﬀerent central
atoms (P, Si, Al, Co) and zeolite H-BEA gave alkanol
dehydration and alkoxide isomerization rate constants that
increased exponentially as POM deprotonation enthalpies
(DPE) decreased and acid strength concurrently increased.
These reactivity-DPE correlations allow assessments of acid
strength and DPE values for Brønsted acids, such as
Hd+(WO3)n
d species, whose structures are incompletely un-
derstood and not amenable to simulations. DPE values and
acid strength of these dispersed structures were determined by
this method to be similar to those for acidic zeolites.
Alkane and alkanol oxidative dehydrogenation reactions on
supported MOx domains involve kinetically relevant C–H
bond breaking steps. These steps lead to the formal reduction
Fig. 14
Dependence of the extent of reduction per surface V-atom on
C3H8:O2 ratios for VOx–Al2O3 during propane ODH (ﬁlled symbols:
C3H8 dependence (1.0–16 kPa C3H8, 4.0 kPa O2, balance Ar, 603 K);
open symbols: O2 dependence (4.0 kPa C3H8, 1.0–16 kPa O2, balance
Ar, 603 K); diamonds: 3.5 wt% V2O5–Al2O3 (2.3 V nm2); squares:
10 wt% V2O5–Al2O3 (8.0 V nm2); triangles: 30 wt% V2O5–Al2O3
(34 V nm2); ﬁlled circles are C3H8 dependence (8.0 kPa O2,
1.0–12 kPa C3H8, balance Ar, 603 K) for 10 wt% V2O5–Al2O3
(8.0 V nm2)]. Reproduced with permission from J. Phys. Chem. B,
2004, 108, 2345–2353. Copyright 2004 American Chemical Society.
5342 | Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
of the metal centers in oxide domains and to marked eﬀects of
domain size, through their concomitant eﬀects on electronic
properties and reduction dynamics. Supported MOx catalysts
with diﬀerent metal atoms (V, Mo, W, Nb), surface densities,
and supports show a common increase in oxidative dehydro-
genation turnover rates with decreasing energies for oxygen-
to-metal charge transitions. These universal trends reﬂect a
concurrent decrease in the activation barriers for kinetically-
relevant C–H bond activation steps as the energy level of the
lowest unoccupied states of the MOx domains decreases.
These unoccupied levels decrease in energy in the order
Nb4W4Mo4V and also as the size of the oxide domains
and the reducibility of the support increase.
The general features determining the reactivity of MOx
based catalysts in acid and oxidation chemistries are more or
less evident from these studies. The detailed understanding of
the interplay of structure, composition, and the energies and
entropies of intermediates and transition states in acid or
oxidation elementary steps, which ultimately determine overall
selectivities and rates, remains a challenge for all but a few
simple reactions. Advances in our knowledge and in our
ability to design inorganic structures for speciﬁc purposes will
require a seamless combination of experiment and theory, the
use of structurally well-deﬁned clusters (e.g. Keggin-type POM
clusters), and the interpretation of rate and selectivity data in
terms of rate and equilibrium constants for elementary steps
and of the speciﬁc structures of the adsorbed species and
transition states responsible for the observed chemical trans-
formations.
Acknowledgements
The authors acknowledge the technical and conceptual con-
tributions of Drs. Chelsey D. Baertsch, David G. Barton,
Morris D. Argyle, Kaidong Chen, Michael J. Janik, Matthew
Neurock, Alexis T. Bell, and Stuart L. Soled to the concepts
and ﬁndings described in this Perspective and in previous
studies jointly published and cited herein. The ﬁnancial sup-
port of the Oﬃce of Basic Energy Sciences, Chemical Sciences
Division,
U.S.
Department
of
Energy
under
Contracts
DE-AC03-76SF00098 and DE-FG02-03ER15479 and of the
Division of Chemical and Transport Systems, National
Science Foundation, under Grant CTS-9510575 for the work
cited here is gratefully acknowledged. One of the authors (E.I.)
is grateful for a Humboldt Senior Scientist Award from the
Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, which provided sup-
port for a sabbatical leave during which parts of this article
were redacted.
References
1 D. G. Barton, S. L. Soled, G. D. Meitzner, G. A. Fuentes and E.
Iglesia, J. Catal., 1999, 181, 57.
2 D. G. Barton, M. Shtein, R. D. Wilson, S. L. Soled and E. Iglesia,
J. Phys. Chem. B, 1999, 103, 630.
3 C. D. Baertsch, S. L. Soled and E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2001,
105, 1320.
4 K. Chen, A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia, J. Catal., 2002, 209, 35.
5 K. Chen, A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2000, 104,
1292.
6 A. Henglein, Ber. Bunsen-Ges. Phys. Chem., 1995, 99, 903.
7 A. Zunger, Mater. Res. Soc. Bull., 1998, 35.
8 A. P. Alivisatos, Science, 1996, 271, 933.
9 D. G. Barton, S. L. Soled and E. Iglesia, Top. Catal., 1988, 6, 87.
10 C. D. Baertsch, K. T. Komala, Y. H. Chua and E. Iglesia,
J. Catal., 2002, 205, 44.
11 K. Chen, A. Khodakov, J. Yang, A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia,
J. Catal., 1999, 186, 325.
12 K. Chen, S. Xie, E. Iglesia and A. T. Bell, J. Catal., 2000, 189, 421.
13 M. G. White, Catal. Today, 1993, 18(1), 73.
14 V. Kazansky, Catal. Today, 2002, 73, 127.
15 M. Hino and K. Arata, Chem. Commun., 1998, 1259; K. Arata and
M. Hino, Proceedings of the 9th International Congress on Cata-
lysis, ed. M. H. Phillips and M. Ternan, The Chemical Institute of
Canada, Ottawa, 1988, p. 1727; M. Hino and K. Arata, Appl.
Catal. A: Gen., 1988, 169, 151.
16 G. Larsen and L. Petkovic, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem., 1996, 113, 517.
17 J. G. Santiesteban, J. Vartuli, S. Han, R. Bastian and C. D. Chang,
J. Catal., 1997, 168, 431.
18 S. Kuba, R. K. Grasselli, H. Kno
¨ zinger and B. C. Gates, Chem.
Commun., 2001, 321; M. Scheithauer, T.-K. Cheung, R. E. Jentoft,
R. K. Grasselli, B. C. Gates and H. Kno
¨ zinger, J. Catal., 1998,
180, 1.
19 Proceedings 11th International Congress of Catalysis, ed. J. W.
Hightower, W. N. Delgass, E. Iglesia and A. T. Bell, Elsevier,
AmsterdamE. Iglesia, D. G. Barton, S. L. Soled, S. Miseo, J. E.
Baumgartner, W. G. Gates, G. A. Fuentes and G. D. Meitzner,
Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 1996, 101, 533.
20 A. Cortes and A. Corma, J. Catal., 1978, 51, 338.
21 S. Morin, N. S. Gnep and M. Guisnet, J. Catal., 1996, 159, 296.
22 R. S. Weber, J. Catal., 1995, 151, 470.
23 M. Fournier, C. Louis, M. Che, P. Chaquin and P. Masure,
J. Catal., 1989, 119, 400.
24 Y. Wang and N. Herron, J. Phys. Chem., 1991, 91, 525.
25 L. E. Brus, J. Chem. Phys., 1984, 80, 4403.
26 D. Masure, P. Chaquin, C. Louis, M. Che and M. Fournier,
J. Catal., 1989, 119, 415.
27 H. Kno
¨ zinger and R. Kohne, J. Catal., 1966, 5, 264.
28 H. Kno
¨ zinger, H. Buhl and K. Kochloeﬂ, J. Catal., 1972, 24, 57.
29 B. H. Davis, J. Catal., 1978, 55, 158.
30 P. Berteau and B. Delmon, Appl. Catal., 1991, 70, 307.
31 H. Kno
¨ zinger and A. Scheglila, J. Catal., 1970, 17, 252.
32 S. Soled, G. B. McVicker, L. Murrell, L. Sherman, N. Dispenziere,
S. Hsu and D. Waldman, J. Catal., 1988, 111, 286.
33 J. Macht, C. D. Baertsch, M. May-Lozano, S. L. Soled, Y. Wang
and E. Iglesia, J. Catal., 2004, 227, 479.
34 K. Xiong, J. Robertson and S. J. Clark, J. Appl. Phys., 2007, 102,
083710.
35 J. Macht, M. J. Janik, M. Neurock and E. Iglesia, Angew. Chem.,
Int. Ed., 2007, 46, 7864.
36 M. Bra
¨ ndle and J. Sauer, J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1998, 120, 1556.
37 M. J. Janik, K. A. Campbell, B. B. Bardin, R. J. Davis and M.
Neurock, Appl. Catal., A, 2003, 256, 51.
38 J. Macht, M. J. Janik, M. Neurock and E. Iglesia, J. Am. Chem.
Soc., 2008, accepted.
39 A. L. L. East, T. Bucko and J. Hafner, J. Phys. Chem. A, 2007,
111(27), 5945.
40 J. Macht andE. Iglesia, unpublished results.
41 H. Liu, P. Cheung and E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2003, 107,
4118.
42 H. Liu, P. Cheung and E. Iglesia, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2003,
5, 3795.
43 H. Liu and E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2005, 109, 2155.
44 J. Lichtenberger, D. Lee and E. Iglesia, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.,
2007, 9, 4902.
45 K. Chen, S. Xie, A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia, J. Catal., 2001, 198, 232.
46 M. D. Argyle, K. Chen, A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B,
2002, 106, 5421.
47 M. D. Argyle, K. Chen, A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia, J. Catal., 2002,
208, 139.
48 K. Chen, A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal., 2001,
136, 507.
49 P. Mars and D. W. van Krevelen, Chem. Eng. Sci., 1954,
3(Special Suppl.), 41.
50 M. D. Argyle, K. Chen, C. Resini, C. Krebs, A. T. Bell and E.
Iglesia, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2004, 108, 2345.
This journal is 
c the Owner Societies 2008
Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2008, 10, 5331–5343 | 5343
Published on 09 July 2008. Downloaded by University of Illinois at Chicago on 30/10/2014 15:57:12. 
View Article Online
