Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
www.elsevier.com/locate/jcat
State of the art and future challenges of zeolites as catalysts
Avelino Corma
Instituto de Tecnología Química, UPV-CSIC, Universidad Politécnica de Valencia, Avda. de los Naranjos s/n, 46022 Valencia, Spain
Received 1 September 2002; revised 18 November 2002; accepted 19 November 2002
Abstract
The control of pore diameter and topology of zeolites, as well as the nature of active sites and adsorption properties, allow in many cases
the a priori design of catalysts for applications in the ﬁelds of oil reﬁning, petrochemistry, and the production of chemicals and ﬁne chemicals.
The potentiality of nanocrystalline, delaminated, or ultralarge pore catalysts and of zeolites formed by channels with different dimensions is
outlined.
2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
Keywords: Zeolite; Zeotype; Nanocrystalline; Delaminated and ultralarge pore zeolites; Acid, basic and redox catalysis; Oil reﬁning; Petrochemistry;
Chemicals; Fine chemicals
1. Introduction
Zeolites are crystalline silicates and aluminosilicates
linked through oxygen atoms, producing a three-dimensional
network containing channels and cavities of molecular di-
mensions. Crystalline structures of the zeolite type but with
coordinated Si, Al, or P as well as transition metals and many
group elements such as B, Ga, Fe, Cr, Ge, Ti, V, Mn, Co,
Zn, Be, Cu, etc. can also by synthesized, and they are re-
ferred by the generic name of zeotypes; they include, among
others, ALPO4, SAPO, MeAPO, and MeAPSO molecular
sieves [1–5].
Such tridimensional networks of well-deﬁned micropores
can act as reaction channels whose activity and selectivity
will be enhanced by introducing active sites. The presence of
strong electric ﬁelds and controllable adsorption properties
within the pores will produce a unique type of catalyst,
which by itself can be considered as a catalytic microreactor.
Summarizing, zeolites are solid catalysts with the following
properties:
• High surface area.
• Molecular dimensions of the pores.
• High adsorption capacity.
• Partitioning of reactant/products.
E-mail address: acorma@itq.upv.es.
• Possibility of modulating the electronic properties of the
active sites.
• Possibility for preactivating the molecules when in the
pores by strong electric ﬁelds and molecular conﬁne-
ment.
If the accumulation of knowledge allows us now to
see many catalytic possibilities for zeolites, the beginnings
in this ﬁeld were much more limited. Indeed, the two
ﬁrst properties outlined above, i.e., high surface area and
molecular dimensions of the pores, were early recognized
by Barrer [6,7], who applied them to the separation of linear
and branched hydrocarbons. Thus, Union Carbide invested
heavily in fundamental research on zeolite synthesis and
separation of molecules and the Linde Division developed
in 1948 molecular sieve commercial adsorbents based on
the synthetic aluminosilicates zeolites A and X [8,9]. Very
soon, Rabo and his group at Union Carbide envisaged the
possibilities of zeolites as catalysts by introducing acid sites
and rationalizing that the interaction between acid sites and
reactant molecules involved not only the protic sites but also
the adsorption of the molecule onto the surrounding zeolite
crystals [10]. These studies opened the door for perhaps the
biggest revolution in oil reﬁning, the introduction of acid
zeolite Y as a commercial FCC catalyst by Mobil (today
ExxonMobil) [11].
The different features of zeolites that make these catalysts
unique will be discussed.
0021-9517/03/$ – see front matter 2003 Elsevier Science (USA). All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/S0021-9517(02)00132-X
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
299
2. Shape selectivity control
Analogously to enzymes, zeolites with their regular well-
deﬁned pore dimensions are able to discriminate [12] re-
actants and products by size and shape when they present
signiﬁcant differences in diffusivity through a given pore
channel system. A particular relevant example of this is the
selective cracking of n-parafﬁns and n-oleﬁns with respect
to their branched isomers using medium-pore-size zeolites
with pore diameters in the range 0.45–0.56 nm. This ef-
fect is based on zeolite shape selectivity by mass transport
discrimination, when the diffusion coefﬁcients for branched
and linear hydrocarbons within the pores are at least one
order of magnitude different. Researchers from Mobil pi-
oneered extensive research effort on the synthesis of new
zeolites and their geometrical implications for reactivity
[13,14] that culminated in a series of industrial processes.
Among them we can point out the use of ZSM-5 zeolite
as an FCC cracking additive that selectively cracked lin-
ear versus branched oleﬁns in the gasoline range, producing
gasoline with a higher octane number and higher yield of
propylene in the gas products. The shape selectivity effect of
medium and small-pore zeolites for hydrocracking parafﬁns
has been industrially applied in the selectoforming and cat-
alytic dewaxing processes. More recently, researchers from
Chevron [15] have shown that medium-pore zeolites with
unidimensional channel systems (the author worked with
SAPO-11) can be used to produce selectively monobranched
versus multibranched isomers during the hydroisomeriza-
tion of long chain n-parafﬁns. This was the origin of the
isodewaxing process [16]. An explanation for this effect
has been based on the diffusivity differences between lin-
ear, monobranched, and dibranched products and assuming
that the branching reaction occurs in the pore mouth [17].
However, recent theoretical and experimental work [18–20]
have challenged this hypothesis and they explain the selec-
tive isodewaxing process by geometrical restrictions within
the channels to form the transition states of the dibranched
isomers.
Reaction product discrimination by mass transport effects
can also occur in zeolites, and sometimes practical advan-
tage is taken on this. For instance, the BP-AMOCO process
for the synthesis of 2,6-dialkylnaphthalene, a product use-
ful as a polymer intermediate, is carried out in four different
steps that require four different reactors:
1.
o-Xylene
+
Butadiene
NaK
→
o-Tolyl pentene (OTP)
;
2.
OTP
Acidic zeolite
→
1,5-Dimethyltetralin (DMT)
;
3.
1,5-DMT
Pt/Alumina
→
1,5-Dimethylnaphthalene (DMN)
;
4.
1,5-DMN
Beta zeolite
→
2,6-DMN
.
It is clear that the process could be simpliﬁed if a
selective catalytic dialkylation of naphthalene by methanol
or propylene could be carried out:
MeOH
→
2,6-DMN
+
2,7-DMN
.
Large-pore zeolites should be adequate for producing this
reaction, and USY, Beta, and Mordenite are able to alkylate
naphthalene with isopropanol with good selectivities to the
2, 6 isomer, while producing far less tri- and polyalkylated
products than with a nonmicroporous ﬂuorinated resin [21].
Horsley et al. [22] have shown by molecular mechanics that
a unidirectional 12-member ring zeolite such as Mordenite
(0.64 × 0.70 nm) presents a signiﬁcant energy barrier
to diffusion of the 2,7-DMN isomer, while diffusion of
2,6-DMN was not impeded. However, when a unidirectional
12-member ring zeolite with larger pore diameter (0.72 nm)
was considered (zeolite L), no signiﬁcant energy barrier
was found. Differences in the diffusion coefﬁcients of the
two isomers were considered by ENICHEM researchers
for selecting MTW zeolite for the selective alkylation of
naphthalene with methanol [23].
Differences in the rate of product diffusion also occur
and are further enhanced during the industrial process for
producing dimethylbenzenes [24] (preferably p-xylene) by
selective toluene disproportionation using the medium-pore
ZSM-5 zeolite:
2
ZSM-5
→
400–500 ◦C
+
.
p-Xylene selectivities of ⩾80% are obtained by a con-
trolled interplay of intrinsic chemical kinetics and transport
discrimination of products. In an unmodiﬁed ZSM-5 zeo-
lite the kinetics of the two reactions prevail, and due to the
much faster rate of isomerization (Kisom/Kdisp ≈5000) the
300
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
thermodynamic equilibrium of the three dimethylbenzene
isomers is produced. However, by taking into account the
critical diameter of p- and o-xylene, introducing diffusional
restrictions using larger crystallite sizes, and treating the cat-
alyst with phosphorus, coke, or other modiﬁers that block
pore entrances and increase tortuosity in the xylene diffusion
path, Olson and Haag [25] achieved Kisom/Kdis ⩽1, leading
to an extraordinary enhancement in p-xylene selectivity.
A ﬁnal example where differences in product diffusion
rates have been used to increase selectivity toward the de-
sired product is the acylation of 2-methoxynaphthalene with
acetic anhydride to produce 2-acylmethoxynaphthalene,
which is an intermediate for the synthesis of the anti-
inﬂammatory Naproxen:
The differences in size between the two acylated isomers
indicate that selectivity can be inﬂuenced by using zeolites
as catalysts if the bulkier product cannot be formed inside
the channels and the external crystallite surface is passivated
or, even if the bulkier product is formed inside, its diffusion
out to the reaction media will be much slower. In this case,
the consecutive reaction shown in the above scheme will
occur in a proportionally larger extension, increasing the
selectivity to the desired 2-AMN product. The ﬁrst effect
was shown using Beta zeolite as catalyst. This zeolite,
having two channels of 0.72 × 0.62 nm and one of 0.55 nm
pore diameter can achieve a selectivity of 48% to 2-AMN
for a conversion level of 39% [26]. Further improvement in
selectivity was achieved by ﬁrst increasing the zeolite crystal
size to 9 µm (60% selectivity), and also when the external
surface was silylated (92% selectivity). However, conversion
dropped with silylation from 48 to 8%.
In an attempt to increase selectivity, others [27] have used
surface dealuminated nanocrystallites of Beta zeolite with a
conversion of 31% and selectivity close to 80%.
A further tuning of zeolite pore diameter for the above
reaction can be achieved using two other 12-member ring
tridirectional zeolites named ITQ-7 and ITQ-17 with pores
of 0.62 × 0.61 (2)–0.63 × 0.61 (1) nm and 0.62 × 0.66
(2)–0.63 × 0.63 (1) nm, respectively. For these two zeolites
selectivities to 2-AMN were 64 and 70% for conversion
levels of 40 and 68% [28], respectively, which are still far
from optimum. It appears then to us that it will be difﬁcult
to further improve the selectivity to the desired 2-AMN
isomer, at high levels of conversion, by using zeolite’s shape
selectivity. It is probably a better solution to this problem to
ﬁnd a very active nonzeolitic catalyst for the transformation
of 1-AMN into 2-AMN.
When the catalytic reaction occurs inside the zeolite
pores, the size and shape of channels and cavities can be
used, in some cases, to select the desired reaction pathway
by making use of the so-called “transition state shape selec-
tivity” [29–32]. This occurs when the special conﬁguration
around a transition state located in the crystalline volume is
such that only certain conﬁgurations are possible.
It appears to us that transition state shape selectivity
effects can be more limited in zeolites than in enzymes
owing to the rigid structure of the zeolite. However, we
also believe that their possibilities can be enhanced by
adequate control of internal defects and the introduction of
multicenters within the framework. These will enlarge the
possibilities of selecting a given transition state via geometry
plus chemical interactions [33].
3. Control of adsorption properties
Enzymes are also able to select reactants and products
by polarity and in other cases can perform bimolecular
reactions between two reactants with different polarities. It
should also be emphasized that enzymes are able to work in
aqueous media but the adsorption of water can be controlled.
Thus, using the enzymatic model, the possibilities of zeolites
as catalysts could be improved if the adsorption properties
could be adjusted by either selecting an adequate solvent or,
even better, controlling the hydrophobicity–hydrophilicityof
the solid. We will brieﬂy discuss this below.
Zeolites containing charges are normally hydrophilic ma-
terials that, depending on the number of charges (extra-
framework cations and framework Si/Al ratio), can be more
or less selective adsorbents for polar or nonpolar molecules.
However, pure silica zeolites with no positive charges are
highly hydrophobic materials, provided that the number of
internal silanol defects is low. It is then clear that the po-
larity of a given zeolite could be controlled by controlling
the Si/Al ratio by direct synthesis or by postsynthesis treat-
ments, and this, together with appropriate control of the
number of silanol groups by synthesis or postsynthesis treat-
ments, should make it possible to prepare zeolite catalysts
within a wide range of surface polarities. An adsorption-
based methodology for measuring zeolite hydrophobicities
has been developed by Weitkamp et al. [34].
The effect of surface hydrophobicity on catalyst perfor-
mance was observed by Namba et al. [35] during the direct
esteriﬁcation of acetic acid with n-, iso-, and tert-butyl al-
cohol on different zeolites. These authors observed that the
water formed poisoned the acid sites of the catalysts. How-
ever, the poisoning was lower with the more hydrophobic
high-Si/Al-ratio ZSM-5 catalysts, which were more ac-
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
301
tive despite having a smaller number of acid sites. Ogawa
et al. [36] explored the hydrolysis of water-insoluble esters
with a high Si/Al ratio ZSM-5 that was made more hy-
drophobic by silylation with octadecyltrichlorosilane. The
ester in toluene was contacted with H2O for reaction. The
hydrophobic zeolite allowed the reaction to occur in the two-
phase system with good activity.
Recently, we have shown that it is possible to prepare
either highly hydrophilic Beta zeolites that preferentially ad-
sorb H2O and polar reactants versus nonpolar hydrocarbons,
or very hydrophobic Beta zeolites able to adsorb 150 times
more n-hexane than water [37–39]. Highly hydrophobic
Beta zeolites could be obtained by synthesizing in ﬂuoride
media high-Si/Al-ratio samples that are free of defects.
By achieving the two extremes, samples with interme-
diate hydrophobicities can readily be prepared. These Beta
samples with controlled polarity give good activity and se-
lectivity for producing alkylglucoside surfactants by reacting
glucose and fatty alcohols. In this case glucose is a highly
hydrophilic reactant, while the fatty alcohols are much more
hydrophobic. Then, when a regular hydrophilic zeolite is
used, glucose is preferentially absorbed, competing very fa-
vorably with the alcohol for the acid sites, and slowing the
reaction. In this case, a more hydrophobic defect-free Beta
zeolite with a Si/Al ratio of ∼100 is a much better catalyst
than other Beta samples with a larger number of acid sites
(lower Si/Al ratio) or with more structural defects [40].
This principle has also been used for the synthesis of the
Fructone (ethyl 3,3-ethylendioxybutyrate) fragrance at pilot
plant levels:
CH3COCH2COOCH2CH3 + HOCH2CH2OH
H+
→
+
.
In this example, there is also a difference in polarity
between the two reactants, and the catalytic results presented
in Fig. 1 [41] show that using either Y or Beta zeolites an
optimum between amount of active site and hydrophobicity
of the zeolite should be achieved.
We will present later that the control of the adsorption
properties is vital when the selective oxidation of hydro-
carbons is performed with metal-containing zeolites using
aqueous H2O2 as oxidant.
4. Activating the reactants by conﬁnement effects
in zeolites
When a molecule is conﬁned in the pores of a zeolite, the
sorption energy will include different energy terms
E = ED + ER + EP + EN + EQ + EI + EAB,
where ED and ER are the attractive and repulsive contri-
bution terms, respectively, from the van der Waals interac-
tion; EP, EN, and EQ are the polar, ﬁeld-dipole, and ﬁeld
Fig. 1. Second-order kinetic rate constant (K) of USY (!) and Hβ
(F) zeolites with different Si/Al ratios at 1 h, when the reaction was carried
out at 419 K; catalyst amount, 7.4% wt/wt (of ethylacetoacetate amount);
volume ratio toluene/ethylacetoacetate = 26.6.
gradient-quadrupole terms, respectively; EI is the sorbate–
sorbate intermolecular interaction energy, and EAB is the
energy of the intrinsic acid–base chemical interaction. One
can safely assume that the interaction in the conﬁned space
of the pores will be characterized by the geometry of the
environment of the active site (ED and ER) and by the
chemical composition of the environment (EP and EN).
Derouane [42] has proposed that owing to the conﬁnement
effect, the sorbate molecules in zeolites tend to optimize
their van der Waals interactions with the zeolite walls. This
effect differentiates zeolites with amorphous materials and
makes them more similar to enzymes in the sense that con-
ﬁnement effects may lead to site recognition or molecular
pre-organization of speciﬁc sites of sorbate reactants and
reaction intermediates or products [43,44]. When the size
of a guest molecule approaches the size of the pores and
cavities of the zeolite, one must also consider electronic
conﬁnement, which can strongly inﬂuence the energetic
situation of the reactant, changing its reactivity. This elec-
tronic conﬁnement implies that owing to the partial covalent
character of the zeolite, electrons are not localized on the
framework atoms, but are partially delocalized through the
bulk. Thus when the size of the zeolite channels approaches
the size of the conﬁned molecule, the density of the most
external molecular orbital (HOMO) will drop suddenly to
nearly zero when reaching the walls. This will produce a
contraction of the orbitals of the guest molecule with corre-
sponding changes in the energy level and preactivation state.
This effect was determined by theoretical calculations made
with a molecule of ethylene conﬁned into a microscopic
cavity [45]. Experimental evidence of electronic conﬁne-
ment was presented by Marquez et al. [46]. These authors
have studied the photophysical properties of naphthalene
within pure silica zeolites of different pore diameters by
302
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
diffuse reﬂectance, steady-state, and time-resolved emis-
sion spectroscopy, ﬂuorescence polarization, and FT Raman
spectroscopy. The results showed that the naphthalene mole-
cule was strongly affected by the zeolite host. Distortion
is reﬂected in the bathochromic shift of the 0–0 transition,
the shortening of the ﬂuorescent lifetimes, the observation
of vibronic couplings, the appearance of room-temperature
phosphorescence, and the shift of the Raman peaks to lower
vibration energy due to the weakening of the naphthalene
bonds. The electronic structure of naphthalene within dif-
ferent zeolites was computed on periodic models by using
Hartree–Fock and Kohn–Sham theories. The naphthalene π
electrons are affected by the conﬁnement effect. It appears
to us that because of the electronic conﬁnement, the “basic-
ity” of an adsorbed molecule should be higher than when it
is in the gas phase. If this is so, its reactivity toward the acid
sites should be larger. This may also explain why zeolites
show stronger acidities than expected when probe molecules
are used to determine the acidity. The effects of zeolite con-
ﬁnement on the reactivity of adsorbed molecules has been
proved to be signiﬁcant in photochemical reactions in zeo-
lites [47].
5. Catalytic acid sites in zeolites
To summarize all the relevant work done in this ﬁeld
in a few pages has become an impossible task for us.
Nevertheless, we will try to emphasize some published work
that illustrates the possibilities of zeolites as acid catalysts.
Brønsted acid sites are generated on the surfaces of ze-
olites when Si4+ is isomorphically replaced by a trivalent
metal cation such as, for instance, Al3+. This substitution
creates a negative charge in the lattice that can be com-
pensated by a proton. From a structural point of view, the
Brønsted acid site in a zeolite can be seen as a resonance
hybrid of structures I and II,
I
II
where structure I is a fully bridged oxygen with a weakly
bonded proton, and structure II is a silanol group with a weak
Lewis acid interaction of the hydroxyl oxygen with an Al.
Based on Gutmann’s rules to explain the interaction between
atoms giving and accepting electron pairs [48], Mortier [49]
proposed a general theory that could explain why model I
could be more representative of the situation of the acid
site in a crystalline zeolite structure, while model II would
represent the situation in an amorphous silica–alumina
where no stabilization by long-range symmetry exists [50].
A large number of physicochemical techniques have
demonstrated the presence of those Brønsted acid sites on
zeolites upon dehydration [51–62].
Theoretical calculations and modeling studies of zeolites
have been done using ab initio calculations that attempt to
predict quantitative results of experimental zeolite proper-
ties. These use model clusters, embedded model clusters,
and periodic systems to mimic zeolite structures with in-
creasing range of interaction from short to medium and long
range. For illustrative reviews on the subject see [63–69].
From the zeolite acid catalyst design point of view, it is
clear that the total number of Brønsted sites is, in principle,
directly related to the total number of framework TIII atoms
present [70]. However, in the case of high-aluminum-content
samples not all the acid sites have the same acid strength,
and this changes with the number of aluminum atoms in the
next nearest neighbor position (NNN) of the aluminum atom
which supports the acid site [71].
A completely isolated Al tetrahedron will have zero NNN
and supports the strongest type of framework Brønsted acid
site. Barthomeuf [72] extended this idea by using topologi-
cal densities to include the effects of layers one through ﬁve
surrounding the Al atom. Both the Al NNN and the topolog-
ical density theory predict that by changing the framework
Si/Al ratio, either by synthesis or by postchemical synthe-
sis, it is possible to change not only the total number but also
the electronic density on the bridging hydroxyl group, and
therefore to change the acid strength of the Brønsted acid
site. Thus, when reactions demanding low acidities are to be
catalyzed, zeolites with lower framework Si/Al ratios will
be preferred. In contrast, when strong acidities are required,
zeolites with isolated framework Al (Si/Al ratios ⩾9–10)
will be chosen.
The acid strength of the Brønsted acid sites can also
be modulated through isomorphic substitution, either by
synthesis or by postsynthesis methods, of Si for trivalent
atoms other than Al. For instance, the Ga-substituted zeolites
gave stronger acid sites than boron and weaker than Al-
substituted zeolites. The ﬁne tuning of acid strength is a
very interesting property of zeolites in catalysis and is of
paramount importance for controlling reaction selectivity.
For instance, in the alkylation of benzene and toluene with a
bifunctional alkylating agent (cinnamyl alcohol):
+
→
1
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
303
.
High regioselectivity with respect to the allylic system
for the desired intermediate 1 is obtained with a HY zeolite
with weak acidities (low Si/Al ratio and partial Na+ →H+
exchange). Stronger acidities lead to further condensation
and larger amounts of 1,1,3-thriphenylpropane 2 that not
only decrease selectivity but also deactivate the catalyst [73].
In another example, when high-purity isobutene has to
be obtained for the production of isobutene copolymers,
a very selective mildly acidic catalyst is required which
can decompose MTBE to isobutene and methanol without
giving consecutive reactions. In this case, Snamprogetti uses
B-ZSM-5 to selectively catalyze the reaction. A zeolite
catalyst with weak acid sites such as B-ZSM-5 containing
Ce is active and selective for the isomerization of 2-al-
kylacroleines into 2-methyl-2-alkenals without performing
skeleton isomerization [74]. Ono has discussed zeolites as
solid acids [58] and has also shown the inﬂuence of the acid
strength on the regiospeciﬁc methylation of 4(5)-methylimi-
dazal (4,(5)-MI) to 1,4- and 1,5-dimethyl imidazol (1,4-DMI
and 1,5-DMI):
4,5-MI
CH3OH
→
1,4-DMI
+
1,5-DMI
.
Thus, using zeolites HY and H Beta, both having large pores,
but with different acid strengths the ratio 1,4-DMI/1,5-DMI
can be changed from 0.29 to 2.0 with DMI yields of 100 and
50%, respectively.
The control of zeolite acidity is of special importance in
catalyzing reactions involving strong bases such as NH3 or
pyridines. In these cases a zeolite catalyst with too strong
acidity should be rapidly poisoned by the adsorption of the
basic reactant or product. This is for instance the case for the
aldol condensation of aldehydes and ketones with ammonia,
for the production of pyridine and 3-methylpyridine, which
are intermediates in the synthesis of vitamin B3. In this case
a ZSM-5 zeolite with milder acidity achieved by doping
with Th, Co, or Pb is the active catalyst [75].
Finally, there is an extremely interesting case where, con-
trary to a primary prediction, the use of the very weakly acid
internal silanols of ZSM-5 zeolite has lead to an important
commercial process such as the production of ε-caprolactam
by the Beckmann rearrangement of cyclohexanone oxime
[76,77].
In this process, cyclohexanone oxime is vaporized and
fed into a ﬂuidized-bed-type reactor with methanol vapor.
There, a catalyst mainly composed of high-silica MFI
zeolite is loaded, while MFI containing stronger acid sites
with bridging hydroxyl groups gives undesired nitriles and
catalyst deactivation precursors. It is interesting to see that
the less active internal silanols of either ZSM-5 [78] or Beta
zeolite [27] are more selective and allow longer use of the
catalyst (Scheme 1).
The control of acid strength as well as the density of acid
sites of zeolite catalysts has also led to successful catalysts
and processes in the ﬁeld of oil reﬁning and petrochem-
istry. For instance, in the isomerization of ethylbenzene to
xylenes the reaction involves, as the ﬁrst step, partial hy-
drogenation of the aromatic ring. This is followed by ring
expansion and contraction to yield xylenes. While the ﬁrst
step is catalyzed by Pt metal, the ring expansion and contrac-
tion is an acid-catalyzed reaction that occurs on mordenite
zeolite. However, if the strong Brønsted acid sites of the
protonic form of mordenite are present, the cracking of
partially hydrogenated ethylbenzene also occurs in a large
extension. Then, moderating the acid strength by partial
exchange of acid sites with alkaline or, even better, with al-
kaline earth cations produces higher selectivity to xylenes
[79–81]. There is an intriguing effect of acid strength in
driving the isomerization of xylenes through either a uni-
molecular or a bimolecular mechanism. It has been shown
that zeolites containing strong acid sites produce mainly
unimolecular isomerization, while mesoporous molecular
sieves with weaker acid sites catalyze the reactions through
a bimolecular intermolecular process [82].
Sometimes, the acid site density is even more impor-
tant than acid strength. This has an important impact on
adsorption properties and therefore can be used to control
selectivity when uni- and bimolecular reactions compete.
Then, zeolites with a low density of Brønsted sites (low
density of framework TIII cations or high TIV/TIII ratios)
will favor unimolecular reactions. On the other hand, high
density of TIII atoms will favor bimolecular reactions by
increasing the adsorption of reactants. This factor is being
used together with the control of pore dimensions to regu-
late the ratio of xylene isomerization (unimolecular) versus
xylene disproportionation to toluene and trimethylbenzenes
(bimolecular).
In the case of ﬂuid catalytic cracking (FCC), besides hy-
drocarbon cracking, hydrogen transfer between oleﬁns and
saturated molecules occurs. The ratio of rates for cracking
(uni- and bimolecular) and hydrogen transfer (bimolecu-
lar) has important implications for the ﬁnal yield of oleﬁns
and aromatics, and consequently for gasoline octane num-
ber, propylene yield, and coke formation. Thus, when high
yields of oleﬁns are to be obtained, higher ratios of cracking
304
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
Scheme 1.
to hydrogen transfer should occur and USY zeolites with low
framework Al content are preferred.
6. Future perspectives in zeolite acid catalysts
We believe that one has to look at acid zeolites from the
point not only of view of their intrinsic acidities, but the
role played by the short- and medium-long range effects on
adsorption and stabilization of the activated complex should
also be considered. It seems logical that the structure will
determine the spatial conformation as well as the number of
hydrogen bonds that the “protonated transition complex” can
form with the framework anion in order to get the minimum
energy conﬁguration. As occurs in the case of enzymes, this
hydrogen bond-acceptor ability can be an important feature
of zeolites as micro- or nanocatalytic reactors. If this is so,
it is evident, at least to us, that it is not sufﬁcient from a
reactivity point of view to consider the global framework
Si/Al ratio; the distribution of TIII atoms in the different
framework positions should also be taken into account.
Notice that a random distribution of TIII atoms will not
necessarily occur in all synthesized or post-synthesis treated
zeolites [83]. Thus, the presence of the active site in different
geometrical positions can stabilize the reaction transition
complex differently.
Finally, it would be interesting for some demanding
processes (short-chain parafﬁn isomerization, cracking, alky-
lation, etc.) to have zeolites with very strong acid sites that
could allow some processes to be carried out at lower reac-
tion temperatures or with smaller catalyst inventories. This
can, however, be difﬁcult since a very high acidity could
not be taken by the zeolite framework which would be-
come then hydrolyzed. Nevertheless, it would be interesting
to think how we may generate structures and compositions
that allow a higher delocalization of the negative charge,
leading to higher acidities. Efforts toward achieving stronger
acid sites in zeolites, but in an indirect way, have been
made by preparing organic-functionalized zeolites by direct
synthesis, where more acidic sulpfonic groups can be pro-
duced [84].
7. Zeolites with basic active sites
It is also possible to generate basic sites within the pores
of zeolites and in this way to take advantage of the properties
of zeolites in base catalysis. In the case of zeolites the
basic sites are of Lewis type and correspond to framework
oxygens, and the basicity of a given oxygen will be related
to the density of negative charge. Taking this into account,
the basicity will be a function of framework composition, the
nature of extraframework cations, and the zeolite structure.
Quantitatively, the average charge on the oxygens and the
changes with framework composition can be known by
calculating the average Sanderson electronegativity (ASE)
of the zeolite [85,86].
In agreement with this, a good correlation between the
average basicities calculated by ASE and catalytic activ-
ity for side chain alkylation of toluene with methanol
and Knoevenagel condensation of benzaldehyde with dif-
ferent compensating cations and framework compositions
has been found [87]. The above correlation has also been
observed by using probe molecules such as, for instance,
pyrrole, acetylenes, and chloroform combined with FTIR
and NMR spectroscopies [88–92]. Methoxy groups formed
from methyl iodide and bounded at framework oxygens of
alkali-exchanged zeolites Y and X have also shown, by
13C MAS NMR spectroscopy, a correlation between the
isotropic chemical shift of those surface methoxy groups and
the ASE [93,94].
Calculation of charges on selected oxygen atoms [95]
shows that in the case of faujasite this changes from oxygen
to oxygen when the compensating cations are Na, K, Rb,
or Cs. This charge increases for oxygens O2 and O3
while it decreases for O1 and O4 on passing from Na
to Cs [96]. Further information on basicity of zeolites can
be found in some excellent reviews [97–99]. The basicity
of alkaline-exchanged zeolites is relatively weak and it is
possible to abstract protons in organic molecules with pKa
of 10.7 [100]. However, when Si is partially replaced by
Ge the basicity of the framework oxygens increases, and
they can abstract protons from organic molecules with pKa
of 11.3 [101].
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
305
Interesting work on the catalytic activity of alkaline-
exchanged faujasites has been reported by Ono [102], where
phenylacetonitrile is selectively monomethylated by metha-
nol and dimethylcarbonate. The order of basicity found was
CsX > RbX > NaX > LiX, with CsX > CsY.
Other reactions such as Knoevenagel, aldol and Claisen–
Schmidt condensations that do not require strong basic-
ities are also successfully catalyzed by alkaline zeolites
[103–105].
An interesting feature of basic zeolites is that they are
useful catalysts for some reactions that require acid–base
pairs. In this situation, the Lewis acidity of the cation and the
basicity of the oxygen should be balanced. Reactions such
as toluene chain methylation or selective N-alkylation of
N-methylaniline, beneﬁt from the presence of tunable acid–
base pairs in alkaline-substituted zeolites [106–115].
In an attempt to proﬁt from the microporosity of zeolites,
while increasing basicity, framework oxygen atoms may be
partially replaced by nitrogens. This was attempted as early
as 1968 by treating a Y zeolite with NH3 at high temperature,
and the authors claimed that SiO3 (NH2) groups were
produced [116]. Unfortunately, the basicities of the materials
were not measured.
Stronger basicities have been achieved by generating
extraframework imides within zeolite Y channels by im-
mersing the alkali-exchanged zeolite in a solution of metallic
Na, Yb, or Eu in liquid ammonia. After the solvent was re-
moved by evacuation and heated in vacuum at ∼450 K a
basic catalyst was obtained [117].
Strong basic sites have been created by forming Na0 clus-
ters in supercages of Y zeolite and on the external surface
[118–120] and by forming alkali or alkaline earth oxide clus-
ters [121–124].
8. Future trends on basic catalysis in zeolites
By generating framework and/or extraframework basic
sites, it is now possible to prepare zeolites within a very large
spectrum of basicities. Then, depending on the reaction to be
catalyzed, it should be possible to select the most adequate
basic zeolite from the very mild alkaline-exchanged zeolites
up to very strong alkali- or alkaline-oxide-cluster contain-
ing zeolites. In principle, basic zeolite catalysts should
be available for any of the following base-catalyzed re-
actions: oleﬁn double-bond isomerization; hydrogenation
of oleﬁns, alkynes, and aromatics; side-chain alkylation of
alkylaromatics with oleﬁns; aldol condensation of acetone;
O-alkylation of phenols; Knoevenagel and Claisen–Schmidt
condensations; Tishchenko and Wittig–Horner reactions;
aromatization of cyclodienes; production of allyl alcohols
from alkenes; dehydrogenation of alkylamines to nitriles;
synthesis of primary mercaptans from alcohols and H2S; for-
mation of thiophene or pyrrole by reacting furan with H2S
or NH3, respectively; and reductive decyanation of nitriles.
Some of the above reactions have been worked with ze-
olites, but most of them, which are also of commercial
interest, remain to be explored. We should rely on the imagi-
nation of researchers to better exploit a relatively unexplored
subject such as the combination of basicity and shape se-
lectivity of zeolites to prepare new chemicals. Combining
this with improved work-up procedures and/or catalyst resis-
tance to H2O and CO2 will open new possibilities for basic
zeolites.
9. Zeolites with redox active sites
Many oxidation processes in the liquid phase are cat-
alyzed by soluble oxometalic compounds. These catalysts
present two main limitations. One is the tendency of some
oxometalic species to oligomerize, forming µ-oxocomplexes
that are catalytically inactive. Another limitation is the ox-
idative destruction of the ligands that lead to the destruction
of the catalysts. Solving these two problems will require
isolating the catalytically active sites on inorganic matrices
through supporting metals, metallic ions, metal complexes,
and metal oxides, or synthesizing molecular sieves where the
oxidating atom is incorporated into the framework. Again,
this last type of catalysts require many features encountered
in oxidation enzymes: isolated and identical stable sites, in
an environment adequate from the point of view of adsorp-
tion and geometry. Zeolites with their pores and cavities can
introduce steric effects, while metal atoms incorporated into
the framework may, in some cases, be stable toward leach-
ing. If all these characteristics are important for a successful
heterogeneous solid catalyst working in the liquid phase,
what really makes the redox molecular sieve catalysts unique
is their adsorption properties, which can be tuned from the
point of view of hydrophobicity–hydrophilicity. This should
allow these catalysts to add an extra activity–selectivity
property by selecting the proportion of reactants with dif-
ferent polarities which will be adsorbed into the pores. This
is particularly important when organic compounds have to
be oxidized using aqueous H2O2.
With all the above desired characteristics in mind, re-
searchers at ENI succeeded in introducing, by direct syn-
thesis, Ti into the framework of silicalite, producing a TS-1
redox molecular sieve oxidation catalyst [125–127].
TS-1 has an MFI structure formed by a tridimensional
system of channels with 0.53×0.56 nm and 0.51×0.51 nm,
where the incorporation of Ti into the framework has been
demonstrated by a series of spectroscopic techniques includ-
ing XRD, UV–visible, XPS, and EXAFS–XANES [128].
More recently, electrochemical and photochemical tech-
niques have also been successfully used not only to elucidate
the coordination of Ti, but even to discuss on Ti in differ-
ent “T” positions [129,130]. By means of these techniques
it has been proven that in well-prepared TS-1 catalysts Ti is
present in tetrahedral coordination, preferentially as isolated
Ti(IV) atoms. Owing to the silica framework with a small
306
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
Table 1
Inﬂuence of Al content and zeolite polarity on activity and selectivity of Ti-Beta for epoxidation of 1-hexene with H2O2 using methanol as a solvent
Zeolite characteristics
Chemical composition
TOF
Epoxide selectivity
Si/Al ratio
TiO2 (wt%)
(mol/mol Tih)
(%)
Framework Al + defects
300
4.7
20.8
25.9
No aluminum but defects present
∞
2.5
28.6
75.4
No aluminum, no defects (F−synthesis)
∞
2.5
32.2
96.4
number of defects, the TS-1 is a hydrophobic material and
thus can use H2O2 as oxidant in a large number of reactions.
Among them, we can highlight the following: epoxidation
of linear oleﬁns, oxidation of linear alkanes to alcohols and
ketones, oxidation of alcohols, hydroxylation of aromatics,
oxidation of amines, and oxidation of sulfur compounds and
ethers [131–138].
As was shown before for acid-catalyzed reactions, shape
selectivity effects can also be important with redox zeolites.
For instance, in the case of the hydroxylation of phenol the
shape selective properties of the structure are desirable when
hydroquinone is the most desired product:
Phenol
H2O2
→
TS-1
Hydroquinone
+
Pirocatechol
.
The smaller kinetic diameter of hydroquinone than of
pirocatechol would recommend maximizing the molecular
sieve effect of the TS-1 by preparing large zeolite crystals.
However, a compromise should be reached in this case, since
globally fast diffusion of the diphenols out of the pores is
required in order to avoid secondary reactions leading to
further oxidated products, tars, and H2O2 decomposition.
Since it is mandatory to minimize the above negative effects,
crystal sizes as small as possible are preferred, and if
possible with a deactivated external surface. Small zeolite
crystals are also desired for propylene epoxidation, since
larger crystals deactivate faster because formation of bulky
secondary products may partially block the pores.
For commercial uses, TS-1 should be incorporated into
a silica matrix in order to deal with the small crystallites and
the low attrition resistance of the pure zeolite.
For other reactions where the reactants or products are
too large to diffuse through the pores of the MFI and MEL
(TS-2) [139] zeolite structures, TS-1 and TS-2 oxidation
catalysts become limited [140]. Owing to this, large-pore
Ti-zeolites have been synthesized. Among them, the incor-
poration of Ti by direct synthesis has been demonstrated
for BEA (Ti-Beta), MTW (Ti-ZSM-12), ISV (Ti-ITQ), and
MWW (Ti-MCM-22) [141–147].
When hydrocarbons are oxidized with aqueous H2O2,
two phases are formed unless a nonreactive cosolvent is
added. Nevertheless, both polar and apolar reactants have to
diffuse and adsorb into the pores of the zeolite. It appears
that again the polarity of the zeolite plays an important
role on the catalyst properties. As was said before, zeolite
polarity will increase when increasing the charges present
(increasing TIII framework atoms) and if defects (internal
silanols) are present. In some cases, such as the epoxidation
of oleﬁns, the presence of TIII atoms, especially if they are
compensated by protons, may have a deleterious effect on
selectivity by further reacting with the products. This is
especially true for epoxides, which in the presence of water
hydrolyze to give the corresponding diols and/or ethers:
H2O2
→
Ti-zeolite
Ti-Al zeolite
(R-OH as cosolvent)
→
Ti-Al zeolite
+
+
.
A very illustrative example for how polarity and acidity
inﬂuence activity and selectivity during oxidation of oleﬁns
is given in Tables 1 and 2 [148].
It is evident that the adsorption properties (hydropho-
bicity–hydrophilicity) of Ti-zeolites are of paramount im-
portance for dealing with reactants with different polarities.
Thus, it can also be expected that the polarity and protic–
aprotic character of the solvent used will have a strong
inﬂuence on reactivity. In this sense, it has been found
that while methanol is the most adequate solvent for TS-1,
acetronitrile is best for Ti-Beta, giving high conversion and
selectivity to epoxides [149]. For further inside into reactiv-
ity of Ti-zeolites see [150–158].
Table 2
Inﬂuence of solvent in allyl alcohol epoxidation with H2O2 over TS-1 at
60 ◦C, and reaction time 8 h
Solvent
Conv.
Product selectivity (wt%)
(wt%)
Epoxide
Aldehyde
Othersa
Acetone
96.0
96.0
4.0
–
Acetonitrile
95.0
95.0
5.0
–
Methanol
58.0
82.0
–
18.0
Ethanol
58.0
86.0
–
14.0
a Cleavage products of epoxide through alcoholysis and other high b.p.
products.
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
307
Let us now show how a redox zeolite can be designed to
give the same products as an enzyme. Linalool is oxidized
by an epoxidase enzyme to give furans and pyrans with high
selectivities [159]:
TBHP
→
cat/CH2CL2
→
furanoid forms
pyranoid forms
.
The enzyme has two active sites, an oxidation center that
epoxidizes the double bond, and an acid center that opens
the epoxide and produces the cyclation and ring formation.
We have tried to mimic this by synthesizing a Ti–Al-Beta
that will have in the structure both the oxidation site
and the acid site
.
With this zeolite and using TBHP as oxidant high conver-
sions of linalool with practically 100% selectivity to furans
and pyrans were obtained [159].
Besides Ti-zeolites, other transition-metal-substituted ze-
olites have been synthesized and are also active and selective
for carrying out oxidations in liquid phase using H2O2 or
organic peroxides as oxidants. For instance, V-MEL and
V-MFI silicalites have shown activity and selectivity for
alkane oxidation and phenol hydroxylation with H2O2 [160].
VAPO-5 selectively catalyzes the epoxidation of allyclic al-
cohols and benzylic oxidations with TBHP [161]. Attention
has to be paid to the leaching of vanadium under liquid-
phase oxidation, since the homogeneous reaction occurring
with the solubilized V can mask the results from the solid
catalyst [162].
In the case of Cr-substituted molecular sieves, H2O2 may
lead to the leaching of some Cr in solution [163]. CoAPO’s
have also been used for liquid-phase oxidations of alkanes
and alkylaromatics. Under these conditions, Co may leach
Table 3
Mild oxidations with H2O2 over isomorphously-substituted molecular
sieves
Catalyst
Reactant
Temp. (◦C)
Major products
V-ZSM-5
Allyl alcohol
60
Acrolein
V-ZSM-5
Acrolein
60
Acrylic acid
V-ZSM-48
Phenol
80
Catechol, hydroquinone
Sn-ZSM-12
Phenol
80
Catechol, hydroquinone
Sn-ZSM-11
Phenol
75
Catechol, hydroquinone
Sn-ZSM-11
Toluene
80
Benzaldehyde
Cr-APO-5
Ethylbenzene
80
Acetophenone
in basic media, in the presence of organic acids, or in the
presence of strong polar solvents [164].
Sn-silicalite, Sn-ZSM-12, Sn-AlBeta, and dealuminated
Sn-AlBeta are active for hydroxylation of phenol, toluene,
m-cresol, m-xylene, naphthalene, and 1,3,5-trimethylbenze-
ne [165,166].
A summary of various reactions on various metal-substitu-
ted molecular sieves is given in Table 3 [167].
Special mention should be made of Al-free Sn-Beta for
the Baeyer–Villiger (BV) oxidation of cyclic ketones with
diluted H2O2. This catalyst gives good activity and very
high selectivity to the corresponding lactone [168]. When
a double bond is also present in the reactant cyclic ketone, a
very high chemoselectivity for the BV reaction is observed
with the Sn-Beta catalyst (Table 4) [169].
The active site is the framework Sn, which acts as
a Lewis acid site. By carrying out a mechanistic study
using methylcyclohexanone labeled with 18O as reactant,
it was concluded that the BV oxidation with H2O2 on Sn-
Beta proceeds via a “Criegee” adduct, where H2O2 adds
to the ketone activated by the Sn-Beta, and the formation
of dioxiranes or carbonyl oxides as intermediates can be
excluded. The complete proposed mechanistic cycle is given
in Fig. 2.
Sn-Beta also carries out successfully the oxidation of
aldehydes to esters and the Meerwein–Pondorf–Verley re-
duction of carbonyl compounds by alcohols [170,171].
10. Transition metal zeolites for selective oxidations
using N2O and oxygen
10.1. N2O as oxidant
Dehydroxylated and high-silica ZSM-5 zeolites have
been used as catalysts for the selective oxidation of aromatic
compounds including benzene, chlorobenzene, diﬂuoroben-
zenes, phenol, styrene, and alkylbenzenes to their corre-
sponding phenol derivatives, using nitrous oxide as oxidant
[172,173]. During the steaming of HZSM-5, strong Lewis
acid–base pair sites are formed and they were able to hydrox-
ylate benzene with N2O, producing high yields of phenol
(70–80%) with high selectivity and regioselectivity [174].
The catalytic performance of the catalyst can be improved by
308
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
Table 4
Baeyer–Villiger oxidation of dihydrocarvone with different catalysts, using H2O2 and peracid as oxidant
Oxidant
Reactant conv. (%)
Products selectivity (%)
Sn-Beta/H2O2
68
100
0
0
MCPBAa
85
11
71
18
Ti-Beta/H2O2
46
0
79b
0
MTO/H2O2c
9
30
33
20
a Metachloroperbenzoic acid.
b The missing 21% comprising products from ring opening of the epoxide.
c Methyltrioxorhenium.
incorporating small amounts of iron into the zeolite [175].
Iron ions can be incorporated into the zeolite either dur-
ing the synthesis or by postsynthesis techniques [176]. An
optimal content and distribution of extraframework iron in
Fe-silicalites increases phenol selectivity, while high acidity
increases benzene conversion, but lowers phenol yield [177].
The industrial application of benzene hydroxylation to
give phenol seems close, however before so, the problem of
catalyst deactivation with time on stream needs to be solved.
10.2. Oxygen as oxidant
Among the several important unresolved catalytic oxi-
dations using air, the oxyfunctionalization of alkanes and
cycloalkanes and the epoxidation of propylene by oxygen
are especially relevant.
While the epoxidation of ethene by oxygen is a highly
selective industrial process, the epoxidation of propylene
is still elusive. The failure to directly epoxidize an allylic
oleﬁn such as propylene can be related to the fact that the
dissociation energy of the allylic C–H bond in propylene
is 77 kcal mol−1 while the corresponding dissociation en-
ergy of the vinylic C–H bond in ethylene is much larger
(112 kcal mol−1) [178]. Then, abstraction of the allylic C–H
bond by O2 in propylene is considerably favored compared
to ethylene, with the corresponding low epoxide selectiv-
ity in the case of propylene. Molecular sieves have been
attempted as catalyst for this reaction. Their application is
Fig. 2. Mechanism of the Baeyer–Villiger oxidation of 2-methyl-cyclohexanone catalyzed by Sn-Beta.
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
309
based on the idea that by means of the adequate active sites,
H2O2 could be generated in situ from H2 and O2, and use
this as the oxidant for propylene epoxidation. Thus, Clerici
and Ingallina [127,179] were able to epoxidize propylene in
the presence of titanium silicalite (TS-1), in one pot, starting
with an alkylated anthrahydroquinone with molecular oxy-
gen and propylene:
O2 +
+
TS-1
→
+
cat
→
H2
.
In this system the organic carrier does not interfere in
the catalytic process since it cannot penetrate into the ze-
olite pores. Yields of propylene oxide, based on starting
alkyl anthrahydroquinone, of 78% are claimed. A similar
reaction cycle is claimed by ARCO to occur with tetraalky-
lammonium salts of the anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonicacid in
aqueous methanol, giving good yields of propylene oxide.
Propylene epoxidation can be performed using O2 and H2
and a bifunctional catalyst formed by Pd and Pt on TS-1.
In this system the noble metal catalyzes the formation of
H2O2 from H2 and O2, while the TS-1 zeolite will react
the H2O2 with propylene to give the epoxide [174]. This
process has the handicap of working under conditions close
to the explosion limit, and the formation of propane coming
from hydrogenation of propylene. On the other hand, when
a catalyst formed by gold dispersed on TS-1 is used to
epoxidize propylene with H2O2 formed in situ by reacting
H2 and O2 at low temperature, no propane is formed and
the selectivity to epoxide is high (99%). Unfortunately,
conversion is still too low (<2%) [180].
With respect to the always interesting oxyfunctionaliza-
tion of alkanes and cycloalkanes, transition metals such
as CrIII, CoIII, MnIII, and FeIII substituted into molecular
sieve AlPO type structures could, in the presence of O2
and saturated hydrocarbons, favor the production of the free
radicals involved in the oxyfunctionalization process [181].
Care about metal leaching should be taken with these sys-
tems [182].
The interest of cyclohexane oxidation for producing cy-
clohexanone for the production of ε-caprolactam, and adipic
acid for producing polyamide ﬁbers and polyurethane resins,
has promoted much work on the design of a heterogeneous
catalyst for cyclohexane autooxidation. Recently, MnAPO-
18 and MnAPO-36 have been reported to be stable catalysts
for the autooxidation of cyclohexane when the substrate is
used as solvent [183]. Possibilities of leaching, especially at
higher levels of conversion, have to be further studied.
Finally, the strong electric ﬁelds present inside the su-
percages of Y zeolite, particularly those ion-exchanged with
alkaline earth cations, can stabilize the collisional charge-
transfer complexes between molecular oxygen and alkanes,
alkenes, and aromatic hydrocarbons, formed by irradiation
[184–186], or by thermal activation [187]. This is an inter-
esting concept that should be further investigated. So far, the
process becomes limited by the desorption of the product
from the catalyst.
11. Conclusions and perspectives in catalysis
Zeolites have been shown to be useful catalysts in a large
variety of reactions, from acid to base and redox catalysis.
We have seen that they will offer new opportunities for
reactions in the ﬁeld of chemical and ﬁne chemicals if,
besides the nature of active sites and dimensions and shape
of the pores, one is able to tune the adsorption properties
and local geometry of the active sites. However, for many
important applications, the size of the zeolitic pores are
too small to react the bulky desired molecules. Thus, new
zeolites with larger pores have to be synthesized. If we
refer exclusively to zeolites, the maximum pore diameter
corresponds to UTD-1 with 1.0 × 0.75 nm [188,189]. This
is a unidimensional pore zeolite that, while interesting for
some particular applications, can present limitations due
to pore blocking. For improving the catalytic properties of
zeolites when dealing with bulky molecules, the following
possibilities can be seen:
• Synthesize zeolites with nanocrystals.
• Synthesize delaminated zeolites.
• Synthesize ultra-large-pore zeolites.
Nanocrystalline zeolites allow large ratios of external to
internal surfaces to be achieved. Then the reactions will
occur at the external surface-pore mouth of the zeolite. In
this case, however, stability of the zeolite upon catalyst
regeneration can be an issue. Furthermore, for many bulky
reactants it will still be difﬁcult to reach active sites located
at the pore mouth. Preparation of mesoporous–microporous
hybrid structures can be a good complement to the use of
nanocrystalline zeolites [190].
Delaminated zeolites [191] present a very large exter-
nal surface (>600 m2 g−1) with good accessibility to active
sites for bulky molecules of interest in oil reﬁning, chem-
icals, and ﬁne chemicals. Delaminated zeolites are stable
toward high-temperature calcination. For more demanding
regeneration conditions, the level of delamination, i.e., the
size of the layers, could be controlled and in this way the
310
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
hydrothermal stability of the delaminated zeolite could be
improved. Further work in this area is needed.
Finally, the most direct way to expand the possibilities of
zeolites in catalysis will be to synthesize new structures (if
possible with a tridimensional arrange of connected pores)
with ultralarge pores (⩾1.0 nm). Some leads toward this
can be found in [192,193]. Recently, a new large-pore ze-
olite with a tridimensional system of interconnected pores
with pore diameter 0.74 nm has been synthesized by com-
bining a large rigid organic structure directing agent that
can make clusters of various molecules and the directing
property of Ge toward the formation of double four-member
rings [194]. It appears to us that by aiming toward the forma-
tion of three- and four-member ring secondary building units
by means of speciﬁc cations–anions, and the use of large and
rigid organic-structure-directing agents it may be possible to
synthesize zeolites with larger pores. Another possibility is
to combine framework cations that may coordinate tetrahe-
drally and pentahedrally, leading to new structures with very
large pores [195].
New shape selectivity effects should be possible by
synthesizing tridimensional medium-pore-size zeolites with
pores formed by 9- or 9- and 10-member rings. The delib-
erated epitaxial isotactic overgrowth of two zeolite phases at
the micrometer scale has been demonstrated [196] and this
can also offer new reaction selectivity features [197].
The synthesis of a pure enantiomer of a chiral zeolite
structure will be a major breakthrough in the ﬁeld that
can lead into new separation and catalytic applications.
However, one should take into account that the size of
the chiral fragment of the zeolite can be too large for the
prochiral molecules that can ﬁt into the channels.
Finally, Lewis-acid-catalyzed reactions (also including
oxidations) using zeolites still offer an open ﬁeld. This will
be more so if chiral organic molecules can be coordinated
with the Lewis acid sites within the zeolites.
Acknowledgment
Financial support by the Spanish CICYT (MAT2000-
1392) is gratefully acknowledged.
References
[1] E.M. Flanigen, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 58 (1991) 1.
[2] Q. Huo, R. Xu, S. Li, Z. Ma, J.M. Thomas, R.H. Jones, A.M. Chip-
pendale, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun. (1992) 875.
[3] M. Estermann, L.B. McCusker, C. Baerlocher, A. Merrouche, H.
Kessler, Nature 352 (1991) 320.
[4] M.J. Annen, M.E. Davis, J.B. Higgins, J.L. Schlenker, J. Chem. Soc.
Chem. Commun. (1991) 1175.
[5] D.E.W. Vaughan, US Patent 5,976,491, 1999.
[6] R.M. Barrer, D.A. Ibbison, Trans. Faraday Soc. 40 (1944) 195.
[7] R.M. Barrer, British Patent 574911, 1944.
[8] D.W. Breck, J. Chem. Education 48 (1964) 678.
[9] R.M. Milton, in: Molecular Sieves, Soc. Chem. Industry, London,
1968, p. 199.
[10] J.A. Rabo, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 23 (1981) 293.
[11] C.J. Plank, E.J. Rosinski, W.P. Hawthorne, Ind. Eng. Chem. Prod.
Res. Dev. 3 (1964) 165.
[12] J. Weitkamp, Solid State Ionics 131 (2000) 175.
[13] V.J. Frilette, W.O. Haag, R.M. Lago, J. Catal. 67 (1981) 218.
[14] N.Y. Chen, G.E. Garwood, J. Catal. 52 (1978) 453.
[15] S.J. Miller, Micropor. Mater. 2 (1994) 439.
[16] S.J. Miller, US Patent 4,859,311, 1989.
[17] W.J. Souverijns, J.A. Martens, J.A. Uytterhoeven, G.J. Froment, P.A.
Jacobs, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 105 (1997) 1285.
[18] Th.L. Maesen, M. Shenk, T.J.H. Vlugt, J.P.F. Jong, B. Smit, J. Ca-
tal. 188 (1999) 403.
[19] E.B. Webb, G.S. Grest, M. Mondello, J. Phys. Chem. B 103 (1999)
4949.
[20] G. Sastre, A. Chica, A. Corma, J. Catal. 195 (2000) 227.
[21] S.J. Chu, Y.W. Chem, Appl. Catal. A 123 (1995) 51.
[22] J.A. Horsley, J.D. Fellman, E.G. Derouane, C.M. Freeman, J. Ca-
tal. 147 (1994) 231.
[23] G. Pazzuconi, G. Terzoni, C. Perego, G. Bellussi, Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 135 (2001) 152.
[24] M.A. Abdal Karem, S. Chand, I.M. Mishra, J. Sci. Ind. Res. 60 (2001)
319.
[25] D.H. Olson, W.O. Haag, ACS Symp. Ser. 248 (1984) 275.
[26] P. Andy, J. García-Martínez, G. Lee, C.W. Jones, M.E. Davis, J. Ca-
tal. 192 (2000) 215.
[27] M.A. Camblor, A. Corma, H. García, V. Semmer-Herlander, S. Va-
lencia, J. Catal. 177 (1998) 267.
[28] P. Botella, A. Corma, G. Satre, J. Catal. 197 (2001) 81.
[29] S.M. Csicsery, J. Catal. 19 (1970) 394.
[30] S.M. Csicsery, J. Catal. 23 (1971) 124.
[31] S.M. Csicsery, Zeolites 4 (1984) 202;
S.M. Csicsery, J. Catal. 108 (1987) 433.
[32] J.C. Van der Waal, K. Tan, H. van Bekkum, Catal. Lett. 41 (1996) 63.
[33] R. Glaser, J. Weitkamp, in: M.M.J. Treacy (Ed.), Proceedings of
the 12th International Zeolite Conference, Baltimore, Vol. 2, 1999,
p. 1447.
[34] J. Stelzer, M. Paulus, M. Hunger, J. Weitkamp, Micropor. Mesopor.
Mater. 22 (1998) 1.
[35] S. Namba, Y. Wakushima, T. Shimizu, H. Masumoto, T. Yashima, in:
B. Imelik, C. Naccache, G. Condurier, Y. Ben Taarit (Eds.), Catalysis
by Acids and Bases, Elsevier, Amsterdam, 1985, p. 205.
[36] H. Ogawa, T. Koh, T. Chichara, J. Catal. 148 (1994) 493.
[37] A. Corma, M.E. Domine, J.A. Gaona, M.T. Navarro, F. Rey, S. Va-
lencia, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 135 (2001) 1812.
[38] J. Stelzer, M. Paulis, J. Weitkamp, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 22
(1998) 18.
[39] J. Weitkamp, S. Ernst, E. Roland, G.F. Thiele, Stud. Surf. Sci. Ca-
tal. 105 (1997) 763.
[40] M.A. Camblor, A. Corma, S. Iborra, S. Miquel, J. Primo, S. Valencia,
J. Catal. 172 (1997) 76.
[41] M.J. Climent, A. Corma, A. Velty, M. Susarte, J. Catal. 196 (2000)
345.
[42] E.G. Derouane, J. Catal. 100 (1986) 541.
[43] E.G. Derouane, Chem. Phys. Lett. 142 (1987) 200.
[44] E.G. Derouane, J.M. André, A.A. Lucas, J. Catal. 110 (1988) 58.
[45] A. Corma, C.M. Zikovich-Wilson, P. Viruela, J. Phys. Chem. 98
(1994) 10683.
[46] F. Marquez, C.M. Zikovich-Wilson, A. Corma, E. Palomares, H. Gar-
cía, J. Phys. Chem. B 105 (2001) 9973.
[47] A. Corma, H. García, J. Chem. Soc. Dalton Trans. 9 (2000) 1391.
[48] V. Gutman, The Donor–Acceptor Approach to Molecular Interac-
tions, Plenum, New York, 1978.
[49] J. Mortier, in: Proceedings 6th International Zeolite Conference,
1984, p. 734.
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
311
[50] G.J. Gajda, J.A. Rabo, in: J. Fraissard, L. Petrakis (Eds.), Acidity and
Basicity of Solids, in: NATO ASI Series, Vol. 444, Kluwer Academic,
London, 1994, p. 127.
[51] A. Corma, Chem. Rev. 95 (1995) 559.
[52] R.J. Gore, Catal. Lett. 62 (1999) 1.
[53] W.E. Farneth, R.J. Gorke, Chem. Rev. 95 (1995) 615.
[54] C. Doremieux-Morin, P. Batamack, C. Martín, J.M. Bregeault, J.
Fraissard, Catal. Lett. 9 (1991) 403.
[55] M. Czjzek, H. Jobic, A.N. Fitch, T. Voght, J. Phys. Chem. 96 (1992)
1535.
[56] A. Auroux, Top. Catal. 19 (2002) 205.
[57] J. Klinowski, in: J.M. Duer (Ed.), Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy,
Blackwell Science, Oxford, 2002, p. 437.
[58] Y. Ono, Zeoraito 18 (2001) 2.
[59] S. Coluccia, L. Márchese, J. Matra, Res. Chem. Intermed. 26 (2000)
1.
[60] R.J. Gorke, D. White, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 35 (2000) 477.
[61] R.J. Gorke, Catal. Lett. 62 (1999) 1.
[62] T. Baba, Y. Ono, Ann. Rep. NMR Spectrosc. 38 (1999) 355.
[63] J. Sauer, Chem. Rev. 89 (1989) 199.
[64] J. Sauer, NATO ASI Ser. B 283 (1992) 533.
[65] R.A. Van Santen, G.J. Kramer, Chem. Rev. 95 (1995) 637.
[66] X. Rozanska, R.A. Van Santen, F. Hutschka, Prog. Theor. Chem.
Phys. 8 (2001) 1.
[67] M. Allavena, D. White, Comput. Chem. 6 (2001) 137.
[68] J. Sauer, J. Sierka, Comput. Chem. 21 (2000) 1470.
[69] I.H. Hillier, THEOCHEM 463 (1999) 45.
[70] W.D. Haag, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 84 (1994) 1375.
[71] L.A. Pine, P.J. Maher, W.A. Wachter, J. Catal. 85 (1984) 466.
[72] D. Barthomeuf, Mater. Chem. Phys. 17 (1987) 49.
[73] E. Armengol, A. Corma, H. García, J. Primo, Appl. Catal. A 126
(1995) 391.
[74] R. Fisher, W. Hölderich, W.D. Mrooz, M. Srohmeyer, Eur. Patent
0167021, 1986.
[75] D. Feitler, H. Wetstein, US Patent 5,013,843, 1991.
[76] H. Ichihashi, M. Kitamura, in: Presentation at the 4 TOCAT Meeting,
Tokyo, July 2002, p. 90.
[77] H. Ichihashi, H. Sato, Appl. Catal. A 221 (2001) 359.
[78] G.P. Heitmann, G. Dahloff, W. Hölderich, J. Catal. 186 (1999) 12.
[79] N.S. Gnep, M. Guisnet, Bull. Soc. Chim. Fr. 5–6 (1977) 429.
[80] J.M. Silva, M.F. Ribeiro, F. Ramoa Ribeiro, E. Benazzi, M. Guisnet,
Appl. Catal. 125 (1995) 1.
[81] L.D. Fernandes, J.L.F. Monteiro, E.F.S. Aguiar, A. Martínez, A. Cor-
ma, J. Catal. 177 (1998) 363.
[82] M. Guisnet, N.S. Grup, S. Morin, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 35
(2000) 47.
[83] P. Sarv, B. Wichterlova, J. Cejka, J. Phys. Chem. 102 (1998) 1372.
[84] C.W. Jones, K. Tsuji, M.E. Davis, Nature 393 (1998) 52.
[85] W.J. Mortier, J. Catal. 55 (1978) 138.
[86] D. Barthomeuf, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 65 (1978) 138.
[87] A. Corma, V. Fornés, R.M. Martín-Aranda, H. García, J. Primo, Appl.
Catal. 59 (1990) 237.
[88] H. Knözinger, S. Huber, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 94 (1998)
2047.
[89] J.C. Lavalley, Catal. Today 27 (1996) 377.
[90] M. Sánchez-Sánchez, T. Blasco, Chemm. Commun. (2000) 491.
[91] M. Sánchez-Sánchez, T. Blasco, J. Amer. Chem. Soc. 124 (2002)
3443.
[92] M. Sánchez-Sánchez, T. Blasco, F. Rey, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 1
(1999) 4529.
[93] V. Bosacek, Z. Phys. Chem. 189 (1995) 241.
[94] V. Bosacek, R. Klik, F. Genoni, G. Spano, F. Rivetti, F. Figueras,
Magn. Reson. Chem. 37 (1999) 135.
[95] W.J. Mortier, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 37 (1988) 253.
[96] L. Wytterhoeven, D. Dompas, W.J. Mortier, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday
Trans. 88 (1992) 2753.
[97] H. Hattori, Chem. Rev. 95 (1995) 537.
[98] D. Barthomeuf, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 38 (1996) 521.
[99] J. Weitkamp, M. Hunger, U. Rymsa, Micropor. Mesopor. Mater. 48
(2001) 255.
[100] A. Corma, R.M. Martín-Aranda, J. Catal. 130 (1991) 130.
[101] A. Corma, R.M. Martín-Aranda, F. Sánchez, J. Catal. 126 (1990) 192.
[102] Y. Ono, Cattech 1 (1997) 31.
[103] A. Corma, R.M. Martín-Aranda, Appl. Catal. A 105 (1993) 271.
[104] E.J. Rode, P.E. Gee, L.N. Marquez, T. Uemura, M. Bazargami, Catal.
Lett. 9 (1991) 103.
[105] L.S. Posner, R.L. Augustine, Chem. Ind. 62 (1995) 531.
[106] H. Vinek, M. Derewinski, G. Mirth, J.A. Lercher, Appl. Catal. 68
(1991) 277.
[107] G. Mirth, J.A. Lercher, J. Catal. 132 (1991) 244.
[108] J.A. Lercher, G. Mirth, M. Stockenhuber, T. Narbeshuber, A. Kogel-
bauer, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 90 (1994) 147.
[109] A.E. Palomares, G. Eder-Mirth, M. Rep, J.A. Lercher, J. Catal. 180
(1998) 56.
[110] A.E. Palomares, G. Eder-Mirth, J.A. Lercher, J. Catal. 168 (1997)
442.
[111] P.R.H. Prasad Rao, P. Massiani, D. Barthomeuf, Stud. Surf. Sci.
Catal. 84 (1994) 1449.
[112] B.L. Su, D. Barthomeuf, Appl. Catal. A 124 (1995) 73.
[113] S. Yuvaraj, M. Palanichamy, React. Kinet. Catal. Lett. 57 (1996) 159.
[114] M. Selva, A. Bomben, P. Tanudo, J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. I 7
(1997) 1041.
[115] M.J. Climent, A. Corma, H. García, R. Guil-Lopez, S. Iborra, V.
Fornés, J. Catal. 197 (2001) 385.
[116] G.T. Kerr, G.F. Shipman, J. Phys. Chem. 72 (1968) 3071.
[117] T. Baba, G.J. Kim, Y. Ono, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 88 (1992)
891.
[118] L.R.M. Martens, P.J. Grobet, W.J.M. Vermeiren, P.A. Jacobs, Stud.
Surf. Sci. Catal. 28 (1986) 935.
[119] X.S. Liu, J.K. Thomas, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans. 91 (1995) 759.
[120] L.J. Woodall, P.A. Anderson, A.R. Amstrong, P.P. Edwards, J. Chem.
Soc. Dalton. Trans. (1996) 719.
[121] P.E. Hathaway, M.E. Davis, J. Catal. 116 (1989) 263.
[122] M. Lasperas, H. Cambon, D. Brunel, I. Rodríguez, P. Genest,
Micropor. Mater. 1 (1993) 343.
[123] F. Yagi, H. Tsuji, H. Hattori, Micropor. Mater. 9 (1997) 239.
[124] T.F. Brownscombe, US Patent 5,053,372, 1991.
[125] M. Taramasso, G. Perego, B. Notari, US Patent 4,410,501, 1983.
[126] P. Ingallina, M.G. Clerici, L. Rossi, G. Bellussi, Stud. Surf. Sci. Ca-
tal. 92 (1994) 31.
[127] M.G. Clerici, P. Ingallina, Catal. Today 41 (1998) 351.
[128] G.N. Vayssilov, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 39 (1997) 209.
[129] A. Domenech, A. Corma, H. García, S. Valencia, Top. Catal. 11/12
(2000) 401.
[130] A. Corma, H. García, M.T. Navarro, E.J. Palomares, F. Rey, Chem.
Mater. 12 (2000) 3068.
[131] A. Esposito, C. Neri, F. Buonomo, US Patent 4,480,135, 1984.
[132] M.G. Clerici, U. Romano, Eur. Patent 230949, 1987.
[133] A. Esposito, M. Taramasso, C. Neri, F. Buonomo, US Patent
2,116,974, 1985.
[134] P. Rofﬁa, M. Pandovan, E. Moretti, G. de Alberti, Eur. Patent 208311,
1987.
[135] S. Gontier, A. Tuel, Appl. Catal. A 118 (1994) 173.
[136] R.S. Reddy, R. Kumar, P. Ratnasamy, Appl. Catal. 58 (1990) L1.
[137] M. Sasidharan, S. Suresh, A. Sudalai, Tetrahedron Lett. 136 (1995)
9071.
[138] B. Notari, Adv. Catal. 41 (1996) 253.
[139] R.S. Reddy, J.S. Reddy, R. Kumar, P. Ratnasamy, J. Chem. Soc.
Chem. Commun. (1992) 84.
[140] T. Tatsumi, S. Negishi, H. Timinaga, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun.
(1990) 476.
[141] M.A. Camblor, A. Corma, J. Pérez-Pariente, J. Chem. Soc. Chem.
Commun. 8 (1992) 589.
[142] S. Valencia, M.A. Camblor, A. Corma, Spanish Patent 9600625,
1996.
312
A. Corma / Journal of Catalysis 216 (2003) 298–312
[143] J.C. Van der Waal, P. Lin, M.S. Rigutto, H. Van Bekkum, Stud. Surf.
Sci. Catal. 105 (1997) 1093.
[144] A. Tuel, Zeolites 15 (1995) 236.
[145] M.J. Díaz-Cabañas, L.A. Villaescusa, M.A. Camblor, Chem. Com-
mun. (2001) 761.
[146] A. Corma, M.J. Díaz-Cabañas, M.E. Domine, F. Rey, Chem. Com-
mun. (2000) 1725.
[147] M. Sasidharan, P. Wu, T. Tatsumi, J. Catal. 205 (2002) 332.
[148] T. Selvam, A.V. Ramaswamy, Catal. Lett. 31 (1995) 104.
[149] A. Corma, P. Esteve, A. Martínez, J. Catal. 161 (1996) 11.
[150] G.F. Thiele, E. Roland, J. Mol. Catal. 117 (1997) 351.
[151] E. Occhiello, Chem. Ind. (October 6, 1997) 761.
[152] V. Hulea, F. Fajula, J. Bousquet, J. Catal. 198 (2001) 179.
[153] P. Wu, T. Komatsu, T. Yashima, J. Phys. Chem. B 102 (1998) 9297.
[154] C.A. Henrik, US Patent 5,648,562, 1997.
[155] W. Adam, A. Corma, T.I. Reddy, M. Rentz, J. Org. Chem. 62 (1997)
3631.
[156] G.J. Hutching, D.F. Lee, A.R. Minihan, Catal. Lett. 33 (1995) 369.
[157] G.J. Hutching, D.F. Lee, A.R. Minihan, Catal. Lett. 39 (1996) 83.
[158] L.J. Davis, P. McMom, D. Bethell, P.C.B. Page, F. King, F.E.
Hancock, G.J. Hutchings, J. Mol. Catal. A 165 (2001) 243.
[159] A. Corma, M. Iglesias, F. Sánchez, J. Chem. Soc. Chem. Commun.
(1995) 1635.
[160] P.R. Hari, P. Rao, A.A. Belhekar, S.J. Edge, A.V. Ramaswamy, P.
Ratnasamy, J. Catal. 141 (1993) 595.
[161] M.S. Rigutto, H. van Bekkum, J. Mol. Catal. 81 (1993) 77.
[162] M.J. Haanepen, A.M. Elemans-Mehring, J.M.C. Van Hooff, Appl.
Catal. A 152 (1997) 203.
[163] H.E.B. Lempers, R.A. Sheldon, J. Catal. 175 (1998) 62.
[164] D.L. Vanoppen, D.E. De Vos, M.J. Genet, P.G. Rouxhet, P.A. Jacobs,
Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 34 (1996) 560.
[165] N.K. Mal, A. Bhaumik, R. Kumar, A.V. Ramaswamy, Catal. Lett. 33
(1995) 387.
[166] N.K. Mal, A.V. Ramaswamy, Chem. Commun. (1997) 425.
[167] P.B. Venuto, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 105 (1997) 811.
[168] A. Corma, L.T. Nemeth, M. Renz, S. Valencia, Nature 412 (2001)
423.
[169] M. Renz, T. Blasco, A. Corma, V. Fornés, R. Jensen, L.T. Nemeth,
Chem. Eur. J. 8 (20) (2002) 4708.
[170] A. Corma, M.E. Domine, L. Nemeth, S. Valencia, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 124 (2002) 3194.
[171] A. Corma, M.E. Domine, R. Jacquot, French Patent Appl., 2002.
[172] L.M. Kustov, A.L. Tarasov, V.I. Bodgan, A.A. Tyrlov, J.W. Fulmer,
Catal. Today 61 (2000) 123.
[173] L.M. Kustov, V. Bodgan, V. Kazansky, European Patent 98-305192,
1992.
[174] W.F. Hölderich, Appl. Catal. A 194 (2000) 487.
[175] A.S. Kharitonov, G.I. Panov, G.A. Sheveleva, L.V. Pirutko, T.P.
Voskresenskaya, I.V. Sobolev, Patent WO 95/27560, 1995.
[176] W. Mcghee, Patent WO 98/07516, 1998.
[177] G.A. Shevelea, A.S. Kharitonov, G.I. Panov, V.I. Sobolev, N.L.
Razdobarova, E.A. Paukstis, V.N. Romannikov, Neftekhimiya 33
(1993) 530.
[178] J.A. Dean, Lange’s Handbook of Chemistry, 14th ed., McGraw–Hill,
New York, 1992.
[179] M.G. Clerici, P. Ingallina, US Patents 5,221,795 and 5,252,758, 1993.
[180] T.A. Nijhuis, B.J. Huzinga, M. Makkee, J. Moulijn, Ind. Eng. Chem.
Res. 38 (1999) 884.
[181] J.D. Chen, J. Dakka, R.A. Sheldon, J. Neelemand, Chem. Commun.
(1993) 1379.
[182] I. Belkhir, A. Germain, F. Fajula, E. Fache, J. Chem. Soc. Faraday
Trans. 94 (1998) 1761.
[183] J.M. Thomas, R. Raja, G. Sankar, R.G. Bell, Acc. Chem. Res. 34
(2001) 191.
[184] F. Blatter, H. Frei, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 115 (1993) 7501.
[185] H. Sun, F. Blatter, H. Frei, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 118 (1996) 6873.
[186] S. Vasenkov, H. Frei, J. Phys. Chem. B 102 (1998) 8177.
[187] D.L. Vanoppen, D.E. Devos, P.A. Jacobs, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 105
(1997) 1045.
[188] C.C. Freyhardt, M. Tsapatsis, R.F. Lobo, K.J. Balkus Jr., M.E. Davis,
Nature 381 (1996) 295.
[189] R.F. Lobo, M. Tsapatsis, C.C. Freyhardt, S. Khodabandeh, P. Wagner,
C.Y. Chen, K.J. Balkus Jr., S.I. Zones, M.E. Davis, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 119 (1997) 8474.
[190] Z.T. Zhang, Y. Han, F.S. Xiao, S.L. Quiu, L. Zhu, R.W. Wang, Y. Yu,
Z. Zhang, B.S. Zou, Y.Q. Wang, H.P. Sun, D.Y. Zhao, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 123 (2001) 5014.
[191] A. Corma, V. Fornés, S.B. Pergher, T.L.M. Maesen, J.G. Buglass,
Nature 396 (1998) 353.
[192] M.E. Davis, Nature 417 (2002) 813.
[193] M.E. Davis, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 135 (2001) 29.
[194] A. Corma, M.J. Díaz-Cabañas, J. Martínez-Triguero, F. Rey, J. Rius,
Nature (2002) 418.
[195] M.A. Roberts, G. Sankar, J.M. Thomas, R.H. Jones, H. Du, J. Chen,
W. Pang, R. Xu, Nature 381 (1996) 401.
[196] T. Okubo, T. Wakihara, J. Plévert, S. Nair, M. Tsapatsis, Y. Ogawa,
H. Komiyama, M. Yoshimura, M.E. Davis, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 40
(2001) 1069.
[197] J.A. Martens, P.A. Jacobs, Adv. Funct. Mater. 11 (2001) 337.
