<quotes>

[1] "Light alkenes are among the most important intermediate products in the chemical industry. For example, in 2003,the worldwide production of ethene was 100 × 106 t and approximately 56 × 106 t for propene [1]. Ethene is primarily used for the production of polymers,especially polyethylenes (HDPE, LDPE, LLDPE) or precursors of other polymer compounds such as 1,2- dichloroethane/vinyl chloride as a precursor of PVC,ethylbenzene/styrene as a precursor of polystyrene or ethylene oxide as a precursor of ethylene glycols or polyethoxylates."
[2] "Propene is also important for the production of polymers, mainly for the production of polypropylene Corresponding author."
[3] "Steam cracking of hydrocarbons is the most important process for the production of light alkenes. World-scale steam crackers have the capacity to produce more than 106 t per annum of ethene."
[4] "Another source of low alkenes, especially propene, is catalytic cracking in the form of fluid catalytic cracking (FCC). In a refinery, FCC is used for the production of fuel components (gasoline and kerosene or diesel oils) from high-boiling crude oil distillation fractions. In addition,low alkenes, especially propene and butenes, are also formed in this process, which at present is preferably performed with zeolite-type catalysts."
[5] "An increase in the share of the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane in the overall production of propene can be expected. On the one hand, the production of propene in existing naphtha crackers cannot be increased without limit at the cost of ethene production since, as a matter of principle, thermodynamic limits prevent a propene/ethene ratio of approximately 0.60.7 from being exceeded. On the other hand, predominantly ethane-based steam crackers are being built that produce only a small amount of propene, and the production of propene in these systems is generally not economically justifiable."
[6] "Furthermore, the predicted growth rate for propene is higher than that for ethene [4]."
[7] "The technical realization of catalytic alkane dehydrogena- tion is problematic, despite its simple stoichiometry. On the one hand, this is due to the thermodynamic limitation of alkane conversion. On the other hand, the reaction is strongly endothermic."
[8] "To achieve technically relevant conversions of 3050%, reaction temperatures of 825975 K are required for propane and 775825 K are correspondingly required for isobutane. As the carbon number of the alkanes to be dehydrogenated increases, the reaction temperature falls."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

Light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, are crucial intermediate products in the chemical industry. In 2003, the global production of ethylene was 100 million tons, and propylene was approximately 56 million tons. Ethylene is mainly used for the production of polymers, especially polyethylene (HDPE, LDPE, LLDPE), or as a precursor for other polymer compounds such as 1,2-dichloroethane/vinyl chloride for PVC, ethylbenzene/styrene for polystyrene, or ethylene oxide for ethylene glycols or polyethoxylates. Propylene is also important for the production of polymers, mainly for the production of polypropylene. Steam cracking of hydrocarbons is the most important process for the production of light olefins, with world-scale steam crackers capable of producing more than 1 million tons of ethylene per year. Another source of light olefins, especially propylene, is catalytic cracking in the form of fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) in refineries. The share of catalytic dehydrogenation of propane in the overall production of propylene is expected to increase, as the production of propylene in existing naphtha crackers cannot be increased without limit due to thermodynamic limits, and predominantly ethane-based steam crackers produce only a small amount of propylene. The predicted growth rate for propylene is higher than that for ethylene. The technical realization of catalytic alkane dehydrogenation is problematic due to thermodynamic limitations and the endothermic nature of the reaction. To achieve technically relevant conversions of 30-50%, reaction temperatures of 825-975 K are required for propane and 775-825 K for isobutane. As the carbon number of the alkanes to be dehydrogenated increases, the reaction temperature falls.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

轻烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，是化工行业极其重要的中间产品。2003年，全球乙烯产量为1亿吨，丙烯约为5600万吨。乙烯主要用于生产聚合物，尤其是聚乙烯（HDPE，LDPE，LLDPE），或作为其他聚合物化合物的前体，如1,2-二氯乙烷/氯乙烯用于PVC，乙基苯/苯乙烯用于聚苯乙烯，或环氧乙烷用于乙二醇或聚乙二醇。丙烯也对生产聚合物至关重要，主要用于生产聚丙烯。烃类的蒸汽裂解是生产轻烯烃最重要的过程，世界级的蒸汽裂解装置每年可生产超过100万吨的乙烯。另一种轻烯烃，尤其是丙烯的来源，是催化裂化，以流化催化裂化（FCC）的形式在炼油厂中进行。催化脱氢丙烷在丙烯总产量中的份额预计会增加，因为现有石脑油裂解装置的丙烯产量无法无限制增加，由于热力学限制，无法超过约0.60.7的丙烯/乙烯比，另一方面，主要基于乙烷的蒸汽裂解装置仅产生少量丙烯，这些系统中的丙烯生产通常在经济上是不合理的。丙烯的预测增长率高于乙烯。催化烷烃脱氢的技术实现是存在问题的，尽管其化学计量简单。一方面，这是由于烷烃转化的热力学限制。另一方面，反应是强吸热的。为了实现技术上相关的30-50%转化率，丙烷需要825-975 K的反应温度，异丁烷相应地需要775-825 K。随着待脱氢的烷烃碳数的增加，反应温度下降。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
