<quotes>

[1] "Light alkenes are among the most important intermediate products in the chemical industry. For example, in 2003,the worldwide production of ethene was 100 × 106 t and approximately 56 × 106 t for propene [1]. Ethene is primarily used for the production of polymers,especially polyethylenes (HDPE, LDPE, LLDPE) or precursors of other polymer compounds such as 1,2- dichloroethane/vinyl chloride as a precursor of PVC,ethylbenzene/styrene as a precursor of polystyrene or ethylene oxide as a precursor of ethylene glycols or polyethoxylates."
[2] "Propene is also important for the production of polymers, mainly for the production of polypropylene Corresponding author."
[3] "Steam cracking of hydrocarbons is the most important process for the production of light alkenes. World-scale steam crackers have the capacity to produce more than 106 t per annum of ethene."
[4] "Another source of low alkenes, especially propene, is catalytic cracking in the form of fluid catalytic cracking (FCC). In a refinery, FCC is used for the production of fuel components (gasoline and kerosene or diesel oils) from high-boiling crude oil distillation fractions. In addition,low alkenes, especially propene and butenes, are also formed in this process, which at present is preferably performed with zeolite-type catalysts."
[5] "An increase in the share of the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane in the overall production of propene can be expected. On the one hand, the production of propene in existing naphtha crackers cannot be increased without limit at the cost of ethene production since, as a matter of principle, thermodynamic limits prevent a propene/ethene ratio of approximately 0.60.7 from being exceeded. On the other hand, predominantly ethane-based steam crackers are being built that produce only a small amount of propene, and the production of propene in these systems is generally not economically justifiable."
[6] "Furthermore, the predicted growth rate for propene is higher than that for ethene [4]."
[7] "The technical realization of catalytic alkane dehydrogena- tion is problematic, despite its simple stoichiometry. On the one hand, this is due to the thermodynamic limitation of alkane conversion. On the other hand, the reaction is strongly endothermic."
[8] "To achieve technically relevant conversions of 3050%, reaction temperatures of 825975 K are required for propane and 775825 K are correspondingly required for isobutane. As the carbon number of the alkanes to be dehydrogenated increases, the reaction temperature falls."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

Light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, are crucial intermediate products in the chemical industry. In 2003, the global production of ethene reached 100 million tons, and propene reached approximately 56 million tons. Ethene is mainly used for the production of polymers, especially polyethylenes, and precursors of other polymer compounds. Propene is also important for the production of polymers, mainly for the production of polypropylene. Steam cracking of hydrocarbons is the most important process for the production of light alkenes, and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) is another source of low alkenes, especially propene. The share of the catalytic dehydrogenation of propane in the overall production of propene is expected to increase. The production of propene in existing naphtha crackers cannot be increased without limit due to thermodynamic limits. The predicted growth rate for propene is higher than that for ethene. The technical realization of catalytic alkane dehydrogenation is problematic due to thermodynamic limitations and the endothermic nature of the reaction. To achieve technically relevant conversions of 30-50%, high reaction temperatures are required, and as the carbon number of the alkanes to be dehydrogenated increases, the reaction temperature falls.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

轻烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，是化工行业中的关键中间产品。2003年，全球乙烯产量达到1亿吨，丙烯产量约为5600万吨。乙烯主要用于生产聚合物，特别是聚乙烯，以及其它聚合物化合物的前体。丙烯也对生产聚合物至关重要，主要用于生产聚丙烯。烃类的蒸汽裂解是生产轻烯烃最重要的过程，而流化催化裂化（FCC）是另一种低烯烃，尤其是丙烯的来源。预计丙烷催化脱氢在丙烯总产量中的份额将增加。现有石脑油裂解器中丙烯的产量不能无限制地增加，因为存在热力学限制。丙烯的预测增长率高于乙烯。催化烷烃脱氢的技术实现存在问题，因为存在热力学限制，反应强烈吸热。为了实现30-50%的技术相关转化率，需要高温反应，随着要脱氢的烷烃碳数的增加，反应温度下降。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
