I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


From Adlayer Islands to Surface Alloy: Structural and Chemical Changes on Bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) Surfaces Graphical Abstract Adsorption properties of bimetallic surfaces: The influence of the structural properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces on their chemical behaviour is addressed via the adsorption of CO and deuterium as probe molecules. A change of the surface morphology from Pt islands on the Ru substrate to PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys induces significant changes of the adsorption properties.
Abstract The correlation between structural and chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) model catalysts and their modification upon stepwise annealing of a submonolayer Pt-covered Ru(0001) surface up to the formation of an equilibrated PtxRu1x/Ru(0001) monolayer surface alloy was investigated by scanning tunneling microscopy and by the adsorption of CO and D2 probe molecules. Both temperature-programmed desorption and IR measurements demonstrate the influence of the surface structure on the adsorption properties of the bimetallic surface, which can be explained by changes of the composition of the adsorption ensembles (ensemble effects) for D adsorption and by changes in the electronic interaction (ligand effects, strain effects) of the metallic constituents for CO and D adsorption upon alloy formation.
1. Introduction
The observation that the activity and/or selectivity of bimetallic catalysts is often superior compared to that of the pure components has stimulated extensive efforts to clarify the physical origin of the improved catalytic properties.15 Structurally well-defined planar bimetallic surfaces are well suited model systems to correlate chemical and catalytic properties to the relevant structural properties in a straightforward manner. Bimetallic systems prepared by deposition of a submonolayer amount of a foreign metal on the surface of another metal are especially attractive in this respect, since a uniform influence of the underlying monometallic substrate can be assumed, independent of the concentration or distribution of the metal components in the surface layer. The structural parameters of the surface layer are accessible by scanning tunneling microscopy (STM). In combination with adsorption/catalysis studies on these structurally well-defined surfaces, such model systems provide an ideal test case for different effects discussed as physical origin for the modified chemical and catalytic surface properties.613 As part of an extensive study on the (electro-)chemical properties of bimetallic PtRu surfaces and their correlation with their structural characteristics,6,1318 herein we focus on the structural modifications encountered at the transition from an overlayer system, such as a Pt monolayer or Pt monolayer island covered Ru(0001) surface, to a surface alloy, and their effect on the chemical surface properties. The structural properties of laterally equilibrated bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces were already studied in detail by STM.6,13,14,16,1921 Pt deposition at room temperature (300 K) and subsequent heating to different temperatures (up to 1300 K) leads to a broad variation of the distribution of both components in the topmost layer. For Pt deposition at room temperature, dendritic Pt islands are formed on the Ru(0001) substrate.6,16,20 With increasing temperature, the islands grow in size and are transformed to a compact shape after annealing to higher temperatures (700 K).6,16,19,20 The onset of surface alloy formation at the descending edges of vacancy islands in Pt monolayer films was observed after annealing to 850 K,16 while surface alloy formation is completed after annealing to 1300 K.13,16 Herein, we present the results of a combined STM and spectroscopic study on the correlation between structural variations in bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces during the surface alloy formation process and the corresponding modifications in their chemical properties. The surface structure and distribution of the components in the topmost layer was revealed by STM. Looking at the atomic-scale structural development of Pt islands and step decorations upon annealing to increasing temperatures, we expand our previous findings about the onset of surface alloy formation near vacancy islands in Pt monolayer films. Temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) and infrared-reflection absorption spectroscopy (IRAS) measurements, using CO and D2 as probe molecules, were applied to gain insight into the chemical properties of the resulting model surfaces. The information obtained from the study of these two probe molecules is complementary: while CO is adsorbed only in on-top sites on PtRu/Ru(0001) surfaces,13,19,21,22 deuterium (hydrogen) atoms are assumed to occupy fcc threefold-hollow sites on the bimetallic surfaces, similar to findings for the close-packed surfaces of the two pure constituents Ru(0001)23,24 and Pt(111)25,26. Therefore, the effect of a variation in the size of the adsorption ensemble on the adsorption behavior can be derived from a comparison of the CO and hydrogen adsorption properties at different surface compositions.
2. Results
2.1. Structural Properties
The evolution of the surface morphology with increasing temperature is demonstrated in Figure 1 for a sample with 0.3 ML Pt on Ru(0001). After Pt deposition at 300 K, the islands have a dendritic shape and grow in three preferred directions (island arms) with angles of 120 to each other (Figure 1a). Due to the preferred fcc stacking of Pt layers on the hcp Ru(0001) single crystal, the arms are rotated by 60 at consecutive terraces, which are separated by steps of mono-atomic height. The island density is around 1.4×1012 cm2 at present deposition conditions (0.3 ML, 310 K, 0.06 MLmin1). These results agree reasonably well with the findings of previous STM studies on the growth of Pt islands on a Ru(0001) substrate for comparable growth conditions.6,16,20 Figure 1 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint STM morphology images (200×200 nm2) after 0.300.02 ML Pt deposition on Ru(0001) a) at 310 K (It=0.9 nA, Ut=1.7 V), and subsequent annealing to b) 750 K (It=0.9 nA, Ut=1.7 V), c) 840 K (It=0.5 nA, Ut=0.8 V), and d) 1300 K (It=0.9 nA, Ut=0.1 V) with the inset showing an atomically resolved section (9×9 nm2).
Upon annealing this surface to 750 K, compact hexagonal islands are formed, and the island density decreases to 0.4×1012 cm2 (Figure 1b). Since a similar change in the island geometry was previously reported to occur upon annealing at 600 K,20 Pt adatom mobility along step edges, which is responsible for the collapse of the dendritic island structures, must already set in well below 600 K. The decrease in island density indicates that detachment of Pt atoms from island edges and re-attachment to step and island edges is also activated at 750 K. Comparable observations were reported for annealing at 600 K as well.20 An analysis of the STM data reveals a decrease of the number of edge sites from 0.0670.004 to 0.0280.001 ML due to this smoothing process. For this evaluation we assume that the island edges are formed by chains of atoms with a nearest-neighbor distance of 0.27 nm [value for Ru(0001)], independent of the direction. Hence, the density of step edge atoms can be calculated from the total step edge length in nm, divided by 0.27 nm and the considered surface area.
After annealing this surface to 840 K, further Ostwald ripening lets the compact islands grow in size and the step decorations become larger (Figure 1c). Compared to the morphology after annealing to 750 K (Figure 1b), the abundance of step sites further decreases to 0.0200.002 ML, and the island density decreases to 0.3×1012 cm2. In addition, the edges of the islands and the step decorations are less regular. This can be explained by a relatively slow equilibration of larger 2D metal structures,27 which together with the fast cooling rate quenches the less regular high-temperature structures. In addition, the onset of surface exchange may result in local pinning effects (see below). Annealing to 1300 K finally converts the outermost layer into a two-dimensional PtRu alloy with a random and homogeneous atom distribution (Figure 1d).16 As had been discussed in more detail previously, the surface confinement of the alloy layer is largely due to a higher energy barrier for diffusion of Pt into the bulk than for intermixing in the outermost layer.16 The onset of surface alloy formation is resolved in more detail in the STM images in Figure 2. These contain STM images of Ru(0001) surfaces covered by 0.3 ML Pt and annealed to 850 K (Figures 2a,b) and 900 K (Figures 2ce). All images resolve bright and dark protrusions in the Pt and Ru areas, respectively, which can be assigned to dissolved Ru atoms (in Pt surface areas) and Pt atoms (in Ru surface areas), respectively. The brighter (darker) appearance of Ru (Pt) in a Pt (Ru) environment fits to the chemical contrast observed previously in STM images of PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys.6,13,14,16 For better visibility of the dark Pt atoms in the Ru terraces, we have locally enhanced the contrast in a small rectangular region in Figure 2a. The overall density of exchanged atoms, however, is very low at this stage, in the range of 1% of the surface atoms or below, which is important for the later discussion of the adsorption data.
Figure 2 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint STM images recorded after Pt deposition at 310 K (0.3 ML Pt) on a Ru(0001) surface and subsequent annealing to 850 K: a) morphology (50×50 nm2; It=28 nA, Ut=0.5 V), b) atomic resolution (10×10 nm2; It=89 nA, Ut=1 mV); after Pt deposition at 500 K and annealing to 900 K: c) morphology (50×50 nm2; It=2.85 nA, Ut=50 mV), d) atomic resolution on a Pt terrace beside a descending Pt step edge (10×4 nm2; It=63 nA, Ut=1 mV), e) atomic resolution on a Pt decoration beside a descending Pt step edge (zoom in marked area of c) (10×5 nm2; It=56 nA, Ut=2 mV).
The distribution of the foreign atoms is clearly inhomogeneous. There is a pronounced enrichment of Ru atoms in the outer regions of the Pt islands (Figures 2a,b) and in the step decorations, while in the inner parts of the Pt islands the density of Ru atoms is very low (Figures 2ce). Apparently, the Ru atoms accumulate near the descending edges of Pt islands or stripes, which indicates that these edges largely consist of a condensed, mixed adatom gas. The Ru atoms in this adatom gas cannot originate from Ru step edges. Otherwise, the Pt decorations of the Ru steps would have to dissolve completely during the annealing step. In such a scenario, however, the lateral distribution of the Ru atoms within the step decorations would need to be much more homogeneous than imaged by STM (Figures 2ce). Hence, the Ru atoms in the adatom gas at T>850 K must result from an exchange between Pt adatoms and Ru surface layer atoms, as stated previously.16 Moreover, the inhomogeneous distribution of Pt and Ru in the islands and step decorations points towards a low lateral mobility of Ru atoms within the Pt overlayer, which further underlines the importance of the exchange mechanism for the lateral equilibration of the atom distribution in the surface alloys. As shown previously,16 the amount of Pt in the outermost layer is virtually unchanged during surface alloy formation, which could only be explained by a selective growth of mixed islands and step decorations over Pt-free areas. On the atomic scale, this means that Pt and Ru atoms in the outermost layer prefer to be supported on Ru3 sites rather than on Ru2Pt, RuPt2, or Pt3 sites. This can be rationalized by the stronger binding to Ru compared to Pt, which in a simplified picture means an increase of the pairwise bond strength in the order PtPt, PtRu, RuRu. The same preferences were shown to be responsible for the higher stability of the Ru bilayer compared to monolayer islands on Pt(111) surfaces.28,29 On Ru(0001), blocking of island or step-edge growth by locally alloyed regions lying in front of the step edge might also play a role in the surface morphology after annealing to T>850 K. This would be analogous to Pd on Ru(0001), where the growth of strongly irregularly shaped islands at T=840 K was attributed to exchange processes in combination with preferred overgrowth of Pd-free areas.30 Therefore, the transition from smooth and round islands and decorations after annealing to 750 K to more kinked and irregularly shaped ones after annealing to 850 K could be promoted by the onset of surface alloying, in addition to the quenching effects mentioned above. After annealing to 1300 K, Pt and Ru surface atoms are finally homogeneously distributed in the resulting surface alloy.6,13,14,16 In summary, the annealing experiments confirm previous findings about the morphological changes of Pt islands on Ru(0001) upon annealing to T>600 K.16,20 For T850 K, these morphological changes are accompanied by exchange processes between Pt adatoms and embedded Ru surface atoms, that is, the onset of surface alloy formation. Apart from the possible effects of embedded Pt atoms on the morphological evaluation upon further annealing, the most important observation is the formation of alloyed ribbons at the frontiers of step decorations and at the perimeters of Pt islands. In the following section, we elucidate to which extent these changes manifest themselves in the adsorption properties of Pt-modified Ru(0001) surfaces.
2.2. Chemical Properties: CO Adsorption
The chemical properties of the different bimetallic surfaces resulting after annealing to increasing temperature were probed by adsorption of D2 and CO, respectively. TPD and IRAS measurements were performed to monitor variations in the chemical properties of the bimetallic surfaces, resulting from thermally induced changes of the surface morphology and structure. First, the results of the CO adsorption experiments are presented. Figure 3 displays TPD spectra recorded after CO saturation (εCO=37.5 L) of a PtRu surface, which was prepared by deposition of 0.45 ML Pt at 293 K and subsequently annealed to increasing temperatures up to 1300 K. The results of IR measurements performed at 100 K on a PtRu surface with the same Pt coverage after deposition at 293 K, after subsequent annealing to 700 K, and after annealing to 1300 K, are depicted in Figure 4. In this case, the COad coverage was stepwise increased by applying CO exposures from 0.38 to 37.5 L (saturation).
Figure 3 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint a) TPD spectra after saturation with COad from unmodified Ru(0001) (thin full line) and a surface with 0.45 ML Pt after Pt deposition at 293 K (full line) and after annealing to 550 K (dashed line) and to 700 K (dotted line). b) TPD spectra after saturation with COad from a surface with 0.45 ML Pt after annealing to 700 K (thin full line), to 850 K (full line), 1000 K (dashed line), 1150 K (dash-dotted line) and 1300 K (dotted line).
Figure 4 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint IR spectra of PtRu surfaces with 0.45 ML Pt annealed to different temperatures: a) after Pt deposition at 300 K, b) after annealing to 700 K and c) after annealing to 1300 K. The exposures are given in the figure.
We start with a TPD spectrum for CO desorption from the unmodified Ru(0001) surface, which is included in Figure 3a for comparison (thin line). CO desorption from Ru(0001) shows two characteristic peaks, the α1 peak with its maximum at 461 K and the α2 peak (maximum at 406 K), which are well known from the literature.31,32 After 0.45 ML Pt deposition at 293 K, CO desorption in the temperature range of the α peaks of the non-modified Ru(0001) surface (350500 K) is reduced to 50% of that on the Pt-free surface. Two distinct desorption peaks are still discerned, although the minimum between them is much less pronounced. Moreover, a small but noticeable shift of these peaks to a lower temperature is recognized. The trailing edge is shifted by almost 20 K, the peak maxima are situated at 455 K (α1) and 385 K (α2), respectively. This is discussed in more detail in Section 3. Besides the features related to CO desorption from the uncovered Ru areas, a desorption peak at significantly lower temperatures (maximum at 305 K) appears, which is attributed to CO desorption from the Pt islands (see also refs. 6,21). The CO saturation coverage θCO(sat) decreases for the bimetallic surface to 0.55 ML compared to the value of 0.68 ML reported for pure Ru(0001).32 It is important to note in this context that the structure of the bimetallic surface may change slightly during this first TPD flash, at least above 293 K. This effect will influence the results of the experiment, since the TPD spectrum reflects the chemical properties of the surface at the respective desorption temperature.
In Figure 4a, IR spectra of a CO adlayer on a comparable PtRu surface, after Pt deposition at 293 K, are shown. Already after the smallest CO exposure (εCO=0.38 L), two bands appear in the IR spectra. The band at the lower wave number (1994 cm1) results from CO adsorbed on Ru sites (see also refs. 13,19,21), the band at the higher wave number (2043 cm1) is assigned to CO adsorbed on the Pt islands.19 With increasing CO exposure, the first band shifts to 2020 cm1 and is centered at 2049 cm1 after CO saturation. The band related to CO adsorption on Pt sites also shifts with increasing CO exposure to higher wave numbers, reaching 2089 cm1 after CO saturation. This value is in good agreement to that reported before for CO adsorption on closed Pt monolayers on Ru(0001) [PtML/Ru(0001): 2091 cm1],13,21,22 but 15 cm1 lower than typical values for a saturated CO layer on Pt(111).33,34 Additionally, it should be noted that, similar to results of other IR studies of CO adsorption on PtML/Ru(0001),13,21 we did not detect any features related to CO adsorbed on bridge or hollow sites. After CO saturation, the IR spectrum is dominated by the band related to CO adsorption on the Pt islands (2089 cm1). In contrast, the intensity of the IR peak from CO adsorbed on Ru sites (2049 cm1) has decreased. This development is caused by a combination of two effects: 1) a decreasing cross section for IR absorption of CO molecules on the Ru(0001) areas, which is also well known for COad coverages exceeding 0.33 ML on the unmodified Ru(0001),35 and 2) dynamic coupling between CO molecules adsorbed on Pt and Ru areas. The latter effect, which leads to an intensity transfer from the low-frequency (COad/Ru) to the high-frequency band (COad/Pt),36,37 is limited, however, to COad molecules directly at the interface between both areas. Considering the size of the Pt islands, the contribution of dynamic coupling effects to the observed loss of intensity can only be small.
Based on comparison with the results of IR measurements for CO adsorption on flat and stepped Pt single-crystal surfaces, Schlapka et al. had proposed that the coordination of the Pt island sites can be resolved from the position of the IR band of CO adsorbed on these islands.19 For a COad coverage of 0.01 ML, IR peaks detected at 2041 and 2047 cm1 were associated with kink or step sites at the edges of the Pt islands, respectively.19 CO adsorbed in the inner part of larger Pt islands produced a feature at 2085 cm1.19 Therefore, the shift of the IR band related to CO adsorption on Pt sites in our spectra can be explained by the sequential occupation of different adsorption sites on the Pt islands. While initially, at low COad coverage, under-coordinated adsorption sites at the edges of the Pt islands are preferentially occupied due to their higher adsorption energy,19,38 the sites in the center of the Pt islands are filled with increasing COad coverage. The absence of a separate IR band at 2090 cm1 after smaller CO exposures implies that the mobility of the CO molecules on the Pt islands is high enough even at 100 K to diffuse to the edges of the Pt islands, where they are trapped due to the higher adsorption energy at these sites.19 After heating the bimetallic PtRu surface to 550 K, the overall structure of the subsequent CO TPD spectrum remains essentially unchanged (Figure 3a) compared to the non-annealed surface. The only new feature is an additional shoulder at the low-temperature side of the peak assigned to desorption from the Pt islands, which leads to a further downshift of the onset of CO desorption to 230 K. The formation of this shoulder is accompanied by an increase of the saturation coverage to θCO(sat)=0.58 ML. It may be speculated that the low-temperature shoulder is related to the formation of larger Pt islands, which allows a better ordering of the pseudomorphic Pt overlayer. As mentioned before, we do not expect significant differences compared to the spectrum recorded upon CO adsorption directly after Pt deposition at 293 K, since the structure of the initial surface changes during the first TPD run towards that of the second desorption spectrum (recorded after heating to 550 K). With increasing temperature, CO desorption therefore becomes more and more similar for both spectra. Also heating the sample to 700 K does not induce any significant change of the low-temperature CO desorption peak. In contrast, CO desorption at higher temperature is modified, and the signal intensity between the two peaks at higher temperature decreases. This development is most probably related to the reduction of the number of edge sites on the Pt islands after annealing of the surface (cf. Figure 1b).
IR spectra recorded upon CO adsorption on the 700 K annealed surface are displayed in Figure 4b. In this case, only a single band is detected at 1996 cm1 after the lowest CO exposure (εCO=0.38 L), which is assigned to CO adsorbed on Ru sites. As discussed above, this reflects the more stable adsorption on Ru sites compared to Pt surface atoms. Similar to the non-annealed surface, this feature is blue-shifted again with increasing COad coverage and is eventually centered at 2059 cm1 after COad saturation. A second feature appears at higher wave numbers after larger CO exposures, starting at εCO=1.1 L, which is again assigned to CO adsorbed on Pt sites. After a CO exposure of εCO=1.1 L, this band appears at 2062 cm1. According to the peak position, the band is attributed to CO adsorbed on under-coordinated edge sites of the Pt islands (see above). The formation of a double-band structure after a CO exposure of εCO=1.9 L indicates the beginning of the additional occupation of adsorption sites in the center of the Pt islands. After higher CO exposures, it is transformed by coupling effects to a single band at higher wave numbers, which is centered after CO saturation at 2089 cm1. Similar to CO adsorption on the non-annealed Pt/Ru(0001) surface (see above), the IR spectrum after CO saturation is dominated by the IR peak related to CO on Pt sites. The intensity of the band due to COad on Ru sites, however, remains significantly stronger for the annealed surface, which reflects a smaller contribution from intensity transfer due to dipole coupling interaction on the 700 K annealed Pt/Ru(0001) surface (cf. Figure 1). Qualitatively, this can be rationalized by the larger Pt islands.
The onset of local surface alloy formation after heating of the bimetallic sample to 850 K does not induce any major changes in the shape or temperature range of the CO TPD spectrum (Figure 3b) compared to that obtained after annealing to 700 K. The three main desorption features are preserved and only subtle changes can be noted. First, the low-temperature desorption changes from a peak with a preceding shoulder to a broader desorption peak. At the same time, the onset of desorption is shifted by 5 K to lower temperatures. Second, the desorption intensity between the two high-temperature features increases again. The simultaneous change of features related to CO desorption from Pt sites (low-temperature peak) and Ru sites (high-temperature peaks) indicates concomitant small changes of the properties of the Pt islands and the uncovered Ru substrate, in line with the small structural changes at the onset of surface alloy formation, with concurrent insertion of Pt atoms in uncovered areas of the Ru substrate and of Ru atoms at the edges of the Pt islands introduced in the preceding section.16 The effect of progressing surface alloy formation on the chemical properties of this bimetallic surface is illustrated in the CO desorption spectra recorded after annealing the surface to 1000, 1150 and 1300 K, respectively (Figure 3b). The intensity of the low-temperature peak decreases successively with increasing annealing temperature. Nevertheless, the onset remains at the same temperature of 225 K. Second, the high-temperature desorption gains intensity and the two features in this temperature range, which can be still resolved after annealing of the surface to 1000 K, converge to a single broad desorption peak after heating to higher temperatures. After completion of surface alloy formation, the maximum of this new peak is shifted to lower temperature, from 449 K (peak center) before the last annealing step to 443 K afterwards. At the same time, the trailing edge shifts slightly to lower temperature. The saturation coverage [θSat(CO)=0.60 ML] increases slightly compared to the non-annealed surface, but still remains below the value for non-modified Ru(0001) [θSat(CO)=0.68 ML32].
The IR spectra of the CO adlayer on the homogeneous surface alloy (after annealing to 1300 K) are displayed in Figure 4c. After a CO exposure of 0.38 L, only a single COad related band is observed, characteristic for CO adsorbed on Ru sites. It shifts with increasing exposure from 2011 to 2047 cm1. The blue-shift (15 cm1) of the IR feature after the smallest CO exposure compared to the surfaces before alloy formation demonstrates the change of the electronic properties of these adsorption sites due to Pt neighbors. After CO saturation of the surface alloy, the IR band related to CO adsorbed on Pt sites appears at 2080 cm1, while the intensity of the first band decreases considerably. These results are in complete agreement with results of a previous study of CO adsorption on PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys13 with varying surface composition. The intensity transfer upon COad saturation is caused by the same two effects discussed for CO adsorption on the Pt island covered surface, namely a pronounced loss of intensity of COad on Ru at higher COad coverages and an intensity transfer from COad(Ru) to COad(Pt). Due to the dispersed distribution of the Pt and Ru atoms in the surface alloy layer, however, the latter effect is much more pronounced here than in the case of the small Pt islands on the Ru(0001) surface formed after Pt deposition at room temperature.
2.3. Chemical Properties: D2 Adsorption
D2 TPD spectra recorded after Dad saturation of a PtRu surface (εD=75 L) with 0.45 ML Pt are depicted in Figure 5. Again, the spectra were recorded after Pt deposition at 293 K and annealing to successively higher temperatures, from 550 to 1300 K. As already described in the introduction and in a previous publication,17 Dad is expected to adsorb in threefold-hollow sites (in contrast to CO), which leads to an additional mixed ensemble effect for this adsorbate. Deuterium is therefore an ideal complement to CO to investigate the impact of mixed ensemble formation during surface alloying in more detail.
Figure 5 Open in figure viewer PowerPoint a) TPD spectra after saturation with Dad from unmodified Ru(0001) (thin full line) and a surface with 0.45 ML Pt after Pt deposition at 293 K (full line) and after annealing to 550 K (dashed line) and to 700 K (dotted line). b) TPD spectra after saturation with Dad from a surface with 0.45 ML Pt after annealing to 700 K (thin full line), to 850 K (full line), 1000 K (dashed line), 1150 K (dash-dotted line) and 1300 K (dotted line).
Similar to CO desorption (Figure 3), the TPD spectrum of unmodified Ru(0001) after Dad saturation is included again in Figure 5a (thin line). In agreement with results reported in the literature for D (H) desorption from pure Ru(0001),17,39,40 the TPD spectrum exhibits two non-resolved desorption states, with a desorption maximum at 320 K after Dad saturation. The saturation coverage on non-modified Ru(0001) is 1 ML.41 On the partly Pt-covered surface, after deposition of Pt at 293 K, the TPD spectrum shows a significant overall weakening of the Dad binding on the bimetallic surface (full line, Figure 5a). D2 desorption begins immediately after the start of the temperature ramp of the TPD run at 100 K and extends up to 440 K. Two major features can be discerned. The higher-temperature peak, which is approximately in the same temperature range as the peak arising from desorption from non-modified Ru(0001), is assigned to desorption from Pt-free areas of the Ru(0001) substrate. Interestingly, the peak maximum of this feature is shifted to 40 K lower temperature compared to the unmodified substrate. This is discussed in Section 3. The lower-temperature feature (100200 K), which consists of at least a desorption peak at 115 K and a shoulder at slightly higher temperatures (155 K), is due to desorption from the Pt islands. Following the interpretation of the CO TPD spectra, the two features can be correlated to desorption from the center and the edges of the Pt islands, respectively. Additional desorption is detected in the temperature range between the two main features (from 200 to 300 K), which is tentatively attributed to desorption from the edges of the Pt islands. This assignment is supported by the development of the D2 TPD spectra after annealing of the bimetallic surface to higher temperatures. As expected, after heating to 550 K (dashed line, Figure 5a) and 700 K (dotted line, Figure 5a; thin solid line, Figure 5b), the desorption signal in the temperature range attributed to edge sites of the Pt islands decreases. At the same time, the shape of the low-temperature desorption range changes and a single desorption peak is formed, which we attribute to desorption from the inner of the larger Pt islands. The Dad saturation coverage of the bimetallic surfaces is only around 0.7 ML, implying a relatively low saturation coverage on the Pt islands.17 The surface alloy formation process leads to a significant modification of the D2 TPD spectra (Figure 5b) after annealing to higher temperatures. While heating to 850 K (full line, Figure 5b) does not induce a significant change of the general shape of the desorption spectra, due to the small amount of surface alloy formation (also see Section 2.2), there is a clear shift of the trailing edge of the spectra to lower temperatures. This indicates a further weakening of D adsorption on the uncovered parts of the Ru(0001) substrate due to the onset of alloy formation (for discussion see Section 3). Annealing to higher temperature (1000 K) leads to a marked modification of the TPD spectra. First, there is increasing desorption in the temperature range from 100 to 300 K, which can be attributed to desorption from mixed adsorption ensembles (see Section 3), which are formed on dispersed surface alloys. Second, after heating to 1150 K, the high-temperature peak, which had been assigned to desorption from the unmodified Ru substrate, disappears almost completely. The Dad saturation coverage increases slightly during this phase and reaches 0.8 ML after completion of alloy formation.
3. Discussion
The modified chemical and catalytic properties of bimetallic (catalyst) surfaces are mostly discussed in terms of a few fundamental concepts, namely the geometric ensemble effect, the electronic ligand effect and the electronic strain effect.3,4,22,4245 The ensemble effect describes the minimum size of an ensemble of surface atoms of one species in a bimetallic surface layer required for a specific surface process or reaction to take place (pure ensemble effect), which for larger adsorption ensembles results in a rapid decay of active sites with decreasing coverage of the active species (dilution of reactive centers by addition of inert noble metal atoms). Furthermore, changes in the chemical properties of the ensemble with composition (mixed ensemble effect) have been invoked. The electronic ligand effect and the electronic strain effect refer to changes of the electronic and hence also of the chemical properties of a substrate atom or an adsorption ensemble due to electronic interaction with neighboring metal atoms or due to tensile/compressive strain in the bimetallic surface, respectively. While these different concepts are clearly separated theoretically, it is often difficult to disentangle the impact of these different effects in practice. Precondition for any such attempt is a detailed and quantitative knowledge of the distribution of the different metal species in the surface and near surface layers.
On the Pt-monolayer-island-covered Ru(0001) surfaces, the characteristic structural elements are the Pt-free Ru(0001) surface areas, the Pt-monolayer-island-covered areas, and the interface region in between. On these surfaces, which are obtained upon brief annealing to 750 K and below, any exchange of Pt atoms into the Ru surface layers can be excluded (see also ref. 16). In a first-order approximation, the modification of the adsorption properties of both CO and D observed for PtRu/Ru(0001) relative to adsorption on Ru(0001) or on Pt(111) can also be explained in the above framework.13,17,19,22 For a pseudomorphic Pt layer on the Ru substrate, the lattice mismatch between the two components of the bimetallic sample (Pt: 2.77 Å, Ru: 2.70 Å) results in electronic strain effects. Furthermore, the interaction between the Ru(0001) substrate and the Pt cover layer also modifies the electronic structure and hence the chemical properties of the Pt cover layer (vertical electronic ligand effect). Both lead to a downshift of the d-band center and hence to a destabilization of metal adsorbate bond, which has been also observed experimentally.6,14,21,22 Schlapka et al. could demonstrate by an elegant combination of experiment and theory that the electronic interaction with the substrate has a stronger influence than the strain effects for CO adsorption on a Pt monolayer film.22 Similar results were also obtained recently for H and OH adsorption on Pt/Ru(0001) surfaces.18 The significant destabilization is reflected by the presence of the low-temperature peaks for both CO and deuterium desorption from a Ru(0001) surface covered by a Pt monolayer. In previous studies, the adsorption energy for CO adsorption was calculated to decrease from 140 kJmol1 on pure Pt(111)33,46 to only 90 kJmol1 for adsorption on a Pt monolayer on Ru(0001). For deuterium, the activation energy for desorption can be estimated to 40 kJmol1 on the Pt-monolayer-covered Ru(0001) surface, compared to 70 kJmol1 for Pt(111).47 For the partly Pt-covered surface, after deposition of submonolayer amounts of Pt, the two regions, Pt-free Ru(0001) substrate and Pt-monolayer-island-covered areas, are expected to contribute independently to the TPD spectra, depending on the adsorbate coverages on the respective areas. This is also reflected by the desorption spectra, where desorption from Pt-covered areas (low-temperature peaks) and Pt-free areas (high-temperature states) can be clearly discerned due to the very different adsorption energies and hence desorption temperatures. Considering that under desorption conditions the adsorbed species are mostly in a two-dimensional (2D) equilibrium on the surface rather than being confined to Pt or Ru surface areas (rapid surface diffusion at desorption temperatures) leads to subtle modifications in the spectra, mainly in additional intensity in the range between the two peaks.48 However, for large differences in Ead, as they exist for the present case, these effects are small. For a more detailed analysis, the island edge sites, at the perimeter of the Pt islands, have to be considered as well. According to density functional theory (DFT) calculations, adsorption on these sites is stabilized, which can be rationalized by the lower coordination of the edge atoms.38,49 Stabilized adsorption was indeed identified by IR for CO adsorption at 80 K on Pt islands deposited at this temperature,19 and also in the present data, although for the rather large Pt islands (diameter 36 nm after Pt deposition at room temperature), the fraction of island sites is rather low. Interestingly, these sites are populated upon adsorption of small amounts of CO, although thermodynamically, adsorption on the Ru(0001) areas would be favorable. This points to a kinetic stabilization of CO adsorbed on these sites at 100 K, and thus to a significant diffusion barrier between these sites and the surrounding Ru terrace, while diffusion from the inner of the Pt islands to the Pt island edge sites seems to be facile (low diffusion barrier).19 Only after annealing the CO adlayer to 140 K, COad diffuses to the more stable Ru adsorption sites.19 Interestingly, both for CO desorption and for deuterium desorption, the high temperature peaks in the TPD spectra are not fully identical with those obtained on Ru(0001), but exhibit a slight down-shift in the trailing edge and in the peak maxima. The physical origin for these shifts, which were reproducibly obtained, is not yet clear. Considering the rather large contiguous areas of Pt-free Ru(0001) surface, local effects such as a destabilization at the sites close to the ascending Pt island edges, which is likely to occur, can hardly explain these shifts. Also a quantitative understanding of the significant intensity between the two characteristic peaks is not yet reached, since stabilization of the outer sites at the Pt island edge would not provide enough desorption intensity, and a significant broadening of the stabilized region can hardly be reconciled in the picture of local adsorption properties.
Heating the Pt islands deposited at room temperature to temperatures up to 750 K brings about the growth of the islands and a smoothing of the edges of the Pt islands, equivalent to a reduction of the number of under-coordinated adsorption sites along the edge of the Pt islands. The depletion of highly under-coordinated sites results in a shift of the Pt-related COad band from 2040 cm1 (after room-temperature Pt deposition) to 2060 cm1 (after annealing to 700 K) in the limits of low coverages. Following the above discussion, the disappearance of the band at 2040 cm1 for CO adsorption on the 700 K annealed Pt/Ru(0001) sample indicates a loss of (rough) step sites. The loss of stabilized adsorption sites at the edges of the Pt islands and the formation of larger Pt islands is also detected in both CO and D2 TPD spectra. For CO desorption, this process results in a successive decrease of the signal intensity at 410 K, after each annealing step up to 700 K. The other prominent feature formed after annealing, the shoulder at the low-temperature edge of the TPD spectra, is tentatively attributed to desorption from CO adlayers with higher density, which can form only on larger Pt islands, for example due to better ordering. A similar development is also observed in the D2 TPD spectra with a gradual decrease of the signal in the intermediate temperature range, which can be attributed to desorption from the edges of the Pt islands. The build-up of additional desorption intensity at the low-temperature side of the TPD peak can not be observed, since this would be below the temperature range of the TPD measurements.
The influence of the surface structure on the chemical properties is more evident during surface alloy formation, which sets in for annealing above 750 K, for example upon annealing to 850 K. While we see little change when looking at the onset of desorption and at the trailing edge of the spectra, which reflect desorption mostly from Pt-surrounded Pt sites or mostly Ru-surrounded Ru atoms, the changes are significant for the desorption behavior at intermediate temperatures, respectively, and thus for the shape of the TPD spectra. A change of the distribution of the components of the bimetallic system from a phase-separated configuration (Pt islands on the Ru substrate) to a mixed one (PtRu surface alloy) leads to a significant modification of the adsorption properties for both COad and Dad. The CO TPD spectra reveal a stabilization of adsorption on Pt sites and destabilization on Ru sites upon surface alloy formation, which can be explained within the above concepts. The onset of Pt exchange with Ru surface atoms results in a (local) relaxation of the strain effects in the Pt monolayer islands and the appearance of strain effects in the Ru areas (smaller size of Ru atoms compared to Pt atoms), which leads to the above trends in the adsorption energies (see also ref. 13). On the other hand, the interaction between Ru and Pt surface atoms, which is stronger than the PtPt interaction, but weaker than the RuRu interaction,22 results in a decrease of the binding power of Pt surface atoms with adjacent Ru surface atoms, while that of Ru surface atoms adjacent to Pt surface atoms is enhanced.
Experimentally, we find a transfer of CO desorption intensity from the lower- to the higher-temperature peak area with increasing annealing temperature. Hence, the contribution from strain effects (stabilizing for COad/Pt, destabilizing for COad/Ru) seems to be dominant in the present case. Similar conclusions were derived previously for CO adsorption on fully developed PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys with a random distribution of the two components (after annealing to 1300 K) by analysis of the shift of CO desorption features of surface alloys with varying Pt content.13 Considering that there is no loss of Pt surface atoms into deeper layers even after annealing to 1300 K,16 the transfer of desorption intensity from the low-temperature range to the high-temperature range means that the effects on Pt and Ru surface atoms are asymmetric, with significant stabilization when changing from adsorption on a fully Pt-surrounded Pt surface atom [Pt(Pt6)/Ru(0001)] to a partly Pt-surrounded Pt surface atom [e.g. Pt(Pt3Ru3)/Ru(0001)], but little destabilization when going from a fully Ru-surrounded Ru surface atom [Ru(Ru6)/Ru(0001)] to a partly Ru-surrounded Ru surface atom [e.g. Ru(Pt3Ru3)/Ru(0001)].
It is important to realize that the total change in peak shape is small for annealing temperatures up to 850900 K, where the amount of surface alloy formation is also small and clearly visible only after annealing to 1000 K and more. This reflects the CO adsorption behavior (on-top adsorption on both Pt and Ru surface atoms) and indicates that the (de-)stabilization of COad due to the combined strain and lateral ligand effects is rather small for only a single foreign ligand, as it is typically at the onset of surface alloy formation. Furthermore, the down-shift of the trailing edge of the Ru-related desorption peak as compared to that for desorption on the non-modified Ru(0001) surface, which was discussed before already for the Pt monolayer island covered Ru(0001) surface,13 is observed also for the surface alloy.
For deuterium desorption, the formation of mixed ensembles upon surface alloy formation has to be considered in addition to strain and lateral ligand effects,7,17 if similar to findings for the non-modified constituents of the bimetallic surface [Ru(0001)23,24,50 and Pt(111)25,26], threefold hollow sites are the preferred adsorption site for D binding on the bimetallic surface. Recent DFT calculations for hydrogen adsorption on PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloys indicated a marked dependence of the binding strength of hydrogen atoms on these PtxRu3x sites on the ensemble composition, with a successive decrease in the binding energy from 2.89 eV for Ru3 to 2.44 eV for Pt3.51 Since the activation energy for desorption of the D2 molecules is determined by the initial adsorption sites of both Dad atoms and assuming that the recombination of two adjacent Dad atoms represents the rate-limiting step for D2 desorption,17 desorption should be governed by the composition of a compact pentamer of surface atoms surrounding two neighboring fcc threefold hollow adsorption sites. Because of the large variety of compositions of these pentamers, the distinct double-peak structure of the D2 TPD spectra is expected to turn into a broad desorption peak with much less internal structure.7,17 This goes along with an increasing filling of the minimum between the two characteristic peaks (see Figure 5 for annealing temperatures >850 K). Furthermore, since the density of pure Ru pentamers decreases considerably upon alloy formation, the intensity in the higher-temperature region of the spectra is significantly reduced compared to the desorption spectra obtained on the Pt-monolayer-island-covered surface.
Comparing CO desorption and D2 desorption, it is obvious that the changes induced by the transition from a Ru(0001) surface partly covered in Pt monolayer islands to a PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloy are more prominent in the case of D2 desorption. Hence, the adsorption energy of deuterium is considerably more sensitive to variations in the composition of the adsorption ensemble than CO adsorption to varying the composition of the ligand sphere. The results clearly demonstrate the scale of sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the (local) structure and composition of a bimetallic surface at constant overall composition of the surface layer, even for a combination of two chemically active metals such as Ru and Pt.
4. Conclusions
We investigated the modification of the chemical properties of a structurally well-characterized bimetallic PtRu/Ru(0001) surface, which is brought about by a change of the surface morphology from a pseudomorphic Pt monolayer island covered surface to a totally intermixed PtRu/Ru(0001) surface alloy layer, by a combination of STM, TPD and IR measurements. The structure and morphology of the surface and the distribution of the two components are modified by annealing to successively higher temperatures. Dendritic Pt monolayer islands (diameter 36 nm) are formed after Pt deposition at room temperature, which grow in size and assume a relaxed hexagonal shape after annealing to higher temperature (750 K). The reshaping of the Pt islands results in a significant decrease of the number of Pt-island edge atoms, where adsorption is stabilized compared to adsorption on Pt atoms in a contiguous Pt monolayer or in the central areas of the Pt islands. For both adsorbates, desorption from the Pt-covered areas results in a desorption peak at distinctly lower temperatures compared to desorption from Ru(0001) or Pt(111), reflecting a pronounced destabilization, which is due to a combination of strain effects and vertical electronic ligand effects. A slight but clear deviation of the desorption spectra from a simple combination of desorption from Pt-monolayer-covered areas (low-temperature peak) and from Pt-free Ru(0001) areas (high-temperature peak) is evident by a downshift of the peak maximum and of the trailing edge of the high-temperature peak compared to desorption from non-modified Ru(0001) and from the additional intensity in the temperature range between the two peaks. While the latter can, at least qualitatively, be explained by a stabilization of adsorption on the Pt island edges sites (and/or destabilization of the Ru sites along the edge), the physical origin of the down-shift of the high-temperature peak and its trailing edge compared to desorption from Ru(0001) cannot be rationalized in a local adsorption picture and is not clear yet. Finally, CO adsorption on the Pt island edge sites is kinetically stabilized against diffusion to more stable Ru sites at temperatures below 140 K.
The onset of alloy formation by exchange of Pt and Ru surface atoms is observed after heating to 850 K. The small degree of surface alloy formation at this point leads to small and barely noticeable changes in the TPD spectra and hence of the chemical properties of the surface. Annealing to higher temperatures leads to stronger (but still incomplete) intermixing, which also induces pronounced changes of the CO and D adsorption behavior. For CO adsorption, the additional modification of the adsorption behavior upon increasing surface alloy formation can be explained by a combination of electronic (lateral) ligand and strain effects, leading to a strengthening of CO adsorption on Pt sites and a weakening on Ru sites. The extent of these modifications, however, is asymmetric, resulting in a net intensity transfer from the low-temperature peak to the high-temperature peak. Deuterium adsorption is more strongly affected by surface alloy formation, which is attributed to the presence of mixed Pt5xRux/Ru(0001) adsorption ensembles (pentamers), with D binding strength in between those of pure Ru5/Ru(0001) and Pt5/Ru(0001) ensembles. The deuterium adsorption energy on these pentamers is more sensitive to their composition than the CO adsorption energy to the composition of the ligand shell, leaving deuterium adsorption to react more sensitive to surface alloy formation. A completely intermixed surface alloy layer with random distribution of the alloy components is observed after annealing to 1300 K. At this point, the change in the adsorption properties is most obvious for both CO and deuterium adsorption. The results clearly demonstrate the sensitivity of probe molecule adsorption to the (local) structure and composition of a bimetallic surface.
Experimental Section The experiments were performed in two ultra-high vacuum (UHV) systems (base pressure <1×1010 mbar) with facilities for STM52 or TPD, IRAS and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) measurements,14 respectively. Additionally, both systems contain standard facilities for preparation and characterization of surfaces, including an Ar+ ion sputter gun, a cylindrical mirror analyzer for Auger electron spectroscopy (AES), and a quadrupole mass spectrometer (QMS). The cleaning of the Ru(0001) single crystal by standard procedures (for details see refs. 17,53) resulted in surfaces with 50200 nm wide, atomically smooth terraces separated by monolayer steps and contaminations below the detection limit of AES. After cleaning and preparation of the Ru(0001) single-crystal substrate, 0.30.4 ML Pt were deposited on the surface (0.1 MLmin1) by electron beam evaporation (Omicron, EFM 3). For the samples used for the TPD and IR experiments, Pt deposition was always done at room temperature (293 K), while for the samples used for the STM measurements the deposition temperatures are given in the figure captions.STM measurements were performed in the constant-current mode using typical tunneling currents/voltages (applied at the sample) of 0.310 nA/0.11.7 V for large-scale and 2090 nA/110 mV for atomically resolved images. After surface alloy formation, bright Ru and dark Pt atoms could be distinguished in atomically resolved STM images due to the electronic differences of the two surface species (chemical contrast).6,16,5457 For CO and deuterium adsorption, gas exposures were performed by backfilling of the UHV chamber via a glass tube doser (inner diameter 8 mm), whose end is positioned in front of the sample (about 30 mm away). Therefore, the actual gas exposures on the sample are higher than measured by the ion gauge, with correction factors of 5 for CO and 2 for D2. The exposure values given herein are already corrected for this. For the TPD experiments, the sample was exposed to doses sufficient to reach saturation (37.5 L CO, 75 L D2, 1 L=1.33×106 mbars). D2 was used instead of H2 because of the significantly lower background signal. The exposure was started at 110 K, and the sample temperature decreased to below 100 K during adsorption. The sample was heated with a linear heating ramp of 4 Ks1 using a QMS (Pfeiffer Vacuum, QMS 200) to record the TPD spectra. The QMS was shielded by a cap with an aperture of 4 mm against undesired gas contributions from the sample holder or the sample edges. The distance between cap aperture and sample was adjusted reproducibly by an electrical contact.58 The IR measurements were performed using a Bruker Tensor 27 spectrometer and a liquid-N2-cooled mercury cadmium telluride (MCT) detector. Typically, 2048 scans were collected for one IR spectrum (resolution 4 cm1).


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do thermodynamic preferences and reaction conditions influence the stability, surface segregation, and structural configuration of bimetallic catalysts, particularly in Pt-based systems such as Pt-3d alloys, and what are the consequent implications for their catalytic properties and performance in various applications?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 