<quotes>

[1] "The remarkable ODHP performance of iron zeolites has been related to the specificity of N2O as a mono-oxygen donor and to the ability of determined iron species for coordinating re- active atomic oxygen species able to efficiently dehydrogenate propane [4]."
[2] "A major drawback of iron zeolites in ODHP with N2O is the deactivation by coke, leading to a rapid de- crease of the propylene yield [4]."
[3] "The tapered element oscil- lating microbalance (TEOM) technique coupled with gas chro- matography (GC) analysis has proved to be a suitable tool for correlating deactivation and mass changes due to coking in the 0021-9517/$  see front matter  2007 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.jcat.2007.04.010 124"
[4] "The level of detail and accuracy for in situ investigation of coke formation as obtained by TEOM cannot be accomplished using typical approaches to study deactivation, in which coke is characterized after exposing the catalyst to reaction condi- tions and taking samples at defined times for ex situ analyses [1416]."
[5] "However, TEOM does not provide information on the deactivation mechanism at the catalyst surface level, be- cause the nature of coke as well as its interaction with chemical groups in the zeolite cannot be probed."
[6] "To gain a better under- standing of the deactivation of iron-containing zeolites in the C3H8 + N2O reaction and the subsequent regeneration in air,complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are needed."
[7] "In situ FTIR spectroscopy is suitable for assessing coke deactivation of zeolite catalysts in hydrocarbon conversion [1720], by monitoring in real time the formation of carbona- ceous deposits and eventual changes in vibrations associated with the surface acidity and framework of the microporous ma- terial."
[8] "Observing the evolution of the working catalyst under true process conditions is useful for an improved understanding of the ODHP reaction."
[9] "To the best of our knowledge, in situ in- vestigations of selective oxidation of hydrocarbons with N2O over iron-containing zeolites have not been reported."
[10] "Moreover, the reusability of the regenerated catalysts (i.e., to what extent the catalytic performance is recovered on successive re- action and regeneration cycles) has not yet been addressed in detail."
[11] "Infrared results were complemented by TEOMGC exper- iments over the catalysts at the same conditions."
[12] "The degree of catalyst reversibility on reaction and regeneration is evaluated and discussed on the basis of these analyses and characteri- zation of the fresh, coked, and regenerated samples by X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM),and nitrogen adsorption."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.N2O is a mono-oxygen donor that can efficiently dehydrogenate propane, making it advantageous for propylene selectivity in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) compared to other oxidants. Iron zeolites have shown remarkable performance in this process due to their ability to coordinate reactive atomic oxygen species. However, a major drawback is the deactivation of iron zeolites by coke formation, leading to a rapid decrease in propylene yield. The tapered element oscillating microbalance (TEOM) technique coupled with gas chromatography (GC) analysis has been used to correlate deactivation and mass changes due to coking. In situ FTIR spectroscopy is also suitable for assessing coke deactivation of zeolite catalysts in hydrocarbon conversion by monitoring the formation of carbonaceous deposits and changes in vibrations associated with the surface acidity and framework of the microporous material. To gain a better understanding of the deactivation mechanism, complementary spectroscopic studies under reaction conditions are needed. The reusability of the regenerated catalysts and the extent to which catalytic performance is recovered on successive reaction and regeneration cycles have not been addressed in detail. Infrared results have been complemented by TEOMGC experiments over the catalysts at the same conditions, and the degree of catalyst reversibility on reaction and regeneration has been evaluated and discussed based on these analyses and characterization of the fresh, coked, and regenerated samples by X-ray diffraction (XRD), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and nitrogen adsorption.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.N2O是一种单氧供体，能够有效地脱氢丙烷，这使得它在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）中对丙烯的选择性优于其他氧化剂。铁沸石由于其能够协调反应性原子氧物种的能力，在这一过程中表现出显著的性能。然而，铁沸石的一个主要缺点是由于焦炭形成导致的失活，这会导致丙烯产量的迅速下降。锥形元件振荡微平衡（TEOM）技术与气相色谱（GC）分析相结合，已被用于关联失活和由于焦化导致的质量变化。原位FTIR光谱法也适用于通过监测碳沉积物的形成和与微孔材料表面酸性和框架相关的振动变化来评估沸石催化剂的焦炭失活。为了更好地理解失活机制，需要在反应条件下进行补充的光谱学研究。再生催化剂的可重复使用性（即，在连续的反应和再生循环中催化性能恢复的程度）尚未得到详细探讨。红外结果已被TEOMGC实验在相同条件下的催化剂上补充。基于这些分析和通过X射线衍射（XRD）、透射电子显微镜（TEM）和氮吸附对新鲜、焦化和再生样品的表征，对反应和再生过程中催化剂的可逆性程度进行了评估和讨论。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
