I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174 www.elsevier.com/locate/jcat NiNbO mixed oxides as highly active and selective catalysts for ethene production via ethane oxidative dehydrogenation.
Part I: Characterization and catalytic performance
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou
Department of Chemical Engineering, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki and Chemical Process Engineering Research Institute (CERTH/CPERI), PO Box 1517, University Campus, GR-54006 Thessaloniki, Greece Received 21 September 2005; revised 2 November 2005; accepted 3 November 2005 Abstract This work demonstrates the high potential of a new class of catalytic materials based on nickel for the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. The developed bulk NiNbO mixed oxides exhibit high activity in ethane ODH and very high selectivity (90% ethene selectivity) at low reaction temperature, resulting in an overall ethene yield of 46% at 400 C. Varying the Nb/Ni atomic ratio led to an optimum catalytic performance for catalysts with Nb/Ni ratio in the range 0.110.18. Detailed characterization of the materials with several techniques (XRD, SEM, TPR, TPD-NH3, TPD-O2, Raman, XPS, electrical conductivity) showed that the key component for the excellent catalytic behavior is the NiNb solid solution formed upon the introduction of niobium in NiO, evidenced by the contraction of the NiO lattice constant, since even small amounts of Nb effectively converted NiO from a total oxidation catalyst (80% selectivity to CO2) to a very efficient ethane ODH material. An upper maximum dissolution of Nb5+ cations in the NiO lattice was attained for Nb/Ni ratios 0.18, with higher Nb contents leading to inhomogeneity and segregation of the NiO and Nb2O5 phases. A correlation between the specific surface activity of the catalysts and the surface exposed nickel content led to the conclusion that nickel sites constitute the active centers for the alkane activation, with niobium affecting mainly the selectivity to the olefin. The incorporation of Nb in the NiO lattice by either substitution of nickel atoms and/or filling of the cationic vacancies in the defective nonstoichiometric NiO surface led to a reduction of the materials nonstoichiometry, as indicated by TPD-O2 and electrical conductivity measurements, and, consequently, of the electrophilic oxygen species (O), which are abundant on NiO and are responsible for the total oxidation of ethane to carbon dioxide. 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Ethane; Oxidative dehydrogenation; Nickel oxide; Mixed nickel-niobium oxides; Nonstoichiometric oxygen
1. Introduction
Light olefins are currently produced by steam cracking of various petroleum fractions, mainly naphtha. The reactions that take place in a steam cracker are highly endothermic, and thus the process energy demands are extremely high. With the olefin market growing at a rate of 3% per year and fuel costs ris- ing constantly, the development of a substitute method for the production of light olefins has become an increasingly urgent task. * Corresponding author.
E-mail address: alemonidou@cheng.auth.gr (A.A. Lemonidou).
The most attractive alternative to steam cracking is the cat- alytic dehydrogenation of light alkanes in the presence of an oxidizing agent [1]. The energy requirements are minimal be- cause of the low operation temperature and mild exothermicity of the reaction, while alkanes constitute a low-cost and readily available feedstock, conforming to the general need for sustain- able development. However, the development of both active and selective catalytic materials proves to be a very hard task, since the formation of carbon oxides is the thermodynamically fa- vored route and the resulting product, alkene, is generally more reactive than the alkane. Therefore, a catalyst should be able to activate and selectively convert the alkane to the correspond- ing alkene at relatively low temperature and also preserve the alkene from secondary oxidation. 0021-9517/$  see front matter 2005 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved. doi:10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
163 Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation has been studied over a wide range of catalytic materials. Supported early-transition metal oxides (V, Mo, Cr) operate at low temperature (<550 C) and exhibit high initial ethene selectivity [26]. However,high activity can only be achieved at the expense of ethene production, because these catalysts are as a rule more reac- tive toward olefins. High ethylene yields have been reported over chlorine-promoted nonreducible oxides (e.g., LiCl/MgO),where the reaction proceeds at high temperature (>600 C) via a homogeneousheterogeneous reaction scheme [710].Nonetheless, serious problems, such as low catalyst stability and the release of chlorine, are associated with the use of these catalysts.Multicomponent mixed oxides seem to be the most promis- ing class of materials for the ethane oxidative dehydrogenation reaction. One of the best-performing catalysts, reported in 1978 by Thorsteinson et al. [11], consists of a mixture of MoVNb oxides operating at low temperature (<400 C) with relatively high efficiency. More recently, Lopez Nieto and co-workers have developed a catalytic formulation based on mixed Mo VTeNb oxides exhibiting about 75% ethylene yield at low reaction temperature (350400 C). The enhanced catalytic ac- tivity of the proposed mixed oxides was related to the presence of a multifunctional Te2M20O57 (M = Mo, V, Nb) orthorhom- bic phase [12].In a recent investigation we showed that nickel-based mate- rials exhibit very good potential as catalysts for ethylene pro- duction via ethane oxidative dehydrogenation [13]. The good performance of nickel catalysts has been reported previously [1418], but with no extensive characterization and/or identifi- cation of active sites. In our earlier study we demonstrated that spreading of NiO on alumina causes chemical modification of the NiO particles, which, even though possess a bulk-like crys- tallography, exhibit modified electronic properties (monitored by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy [XPS]), rendering them active and selective in ethane ODH; in contrast, unsupported pure NiO was very unselective toward ethane [13]. Promotion of the NiO/Al2O3 catalysts with various metals (Mo, V, Co, Nb, and Ta) significantly modified both structural and catalytic properties. The introduction of niobium was the most benefi- cial for ethane ODH, increasing the reactivity toward ethane by >50% while maintaining the high ethene selectivity, resulting in a 30% ethene yield at 425 C. Niobium was found to improve the dispersion of the nickel phase and facilitate the CH bond activation by acting as an electron transfer promoter.In the case of unpromoted NiO/Al2O3 catalysts, the presence of the alumina support was essential for achieving high selectiv- ity in the ethane ODH reaction [13]. However, further investi- gation of the Nb-promoted catalyst revealed that supporting the nickelniobium phase was not necessary and that actually the unsupported NiNbO mixed oxide yielded a much-improved catalytic material. We therefore report in this study the devel- opment of highly active and selective NiNbO mixed-oxide catalysts for the ethane oxidative dehydrogenation reaction. The effect of the Nb/Ni ratio on the performance of the materi- als is discussed in view of a detailed investigation of the bulk and surface properties of the oxides. Correlations between the characterization results and the catalytic performance data shed light on the nature and functionality of the catalytic active sites.
2. Experimental
2.1. Catalyst preparation
A series of mixed NiNbO oxides with varying Nb/Ni atomic ratio ranging from 0 to 0.67 was prepared by the evaporation method. Aqueous solutions containing the precur- sor salts, nickel nitrate hexahydrate (>99%, Merck) and am- monium niobium oxalate (99.99%, Aldrich), in appropriate amounts were heated at 70 C under continuous stirring for 1 h to ensure complete dissolution and good mixing of the starting compounds. The solvent was then removed by evap- oration under reduced pressure, and the resulting solids were dried overnight at 120 C and calcined in synthetic air at 450 C for 5 h. Pure NiO and Nb2O5 used as reference compounds were obtained from the decomposition of the corresponding precursors at 450 C for NiO and 550 C for Nb2O5 for 5 h in synthetic air.
The catalysts are referred to as NixNby, where x and y in- dicate the atomic content of Ni and Nb, respectively, relative to the total metal content of the materials.
2.2. Catalyst characterization
Surface areas of the samples were determined by N2 adsorp- tion at 77 K, using the multipoint BET analysis method, with an Autosorb-1 Quantachrome flow apparatus. Prior to the mea- surements, the samples were dehydrated in vacuum at 250 C overnight.
X-Ray diffraction (XRD) patterns were obtained using a Siemens D500 diffractometer, with Cu-Kα radiation. The mor- phology of the synthesized materials was examined by scanning electron microscopy (SEM) on a JEOL 6300 microscope, cou- pled with energy-dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX; Oxford Link ISIS-2000) for local elemental composition determination.
The reduction characteristics of the catalysts were studied by temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) experiments per- formed in a gas flow system equipped with a quadrupole mass analyzer (Omnistar, Balzers). Typically, the catalyst sample (50 mg) was placed in a U-shaped quartz reactor and pre- treated in flowing He for 0.5 h at 450 C, followed by cooling at room temperature. The temperature was then raised from room temperature to 800 C at a rate of 10 C/min in a 5% H2/He flow (50 cm3/min). The main (m/z) fragments registered were H2 = 2, H2O = 18, and He = 4.
NH3 temperature-programmed desorption (TPD) was used to determine the acid properties. The experiments were con- ducted on the same apparatus as the TPR experiments described above. The catalysts (100 mg) were pretreated at 450 C for
0.5 h and then cooled to 100 C under He flow. The pretreated
samples were saturated with 5% NH3/He for 1 h at 100 C, with subsequent flushing with helium at 100 C for 1 h to remove the physisorbed ammonia. TPD analysis was carried out from 100 to 700 C at a heating rate of 10 C/min. The following (m/z) 164
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
fragments were registered: NH3 = 15, H2O = 18; N2 = 28, NO = 30, N2O = 44, and NO2 = 46. Quantitative analysis of the desorbed ammonia was based on (m/z) 15.
The oxygen desorption properties of selected catalysts were studied by O2-TPD measurements. The catalyst sample (200 mg) was pretreated in a flow of pure oxygen at 450 C for 1 h and cooled to room temperature under the oxygen flow.
The system was subsequently flushed with helium for 1 h, and the temperature was raised to 850 C at a rate of 15 C/min in He (50 cm3/min). The reactor exit was monitored on-line by a quadrupole mass analyzer (Omnistar, Balzers), and the des- orbed oxygen was detected by following the 32 (m/z) fragment.
Raman spectra were recorded at ambient temperature with a 785-nm diode laser excitation (laser power level, 200 mW) on a Renishaw Raman Spectrometer (type 1000) equipped with a CCD detector. The catalysts were pressed into self-supporting wafers and placed in a sample holder, consisting of a gold plate attached to a heating wire. Before the measurements, the samples were pretreated in flowing He at 120 C for 1 h. The wavenumber accuracy was within 1 cm1.
The surface composition of the catalysts was determined by XPS. The XPS measurements were performed on a Kratos AXIS HSi instrument equipped with a charge neutralizer and Mg-Kα X-ray source. Spectra were recorded at normal emis- sion, using an analyzer pass energy of 20 eV and X-ray power of 225 W.
Electrical conductivity measurements were performed on an Agilent 4284 A 20-kHz1-MHz precision LCR meter. The samples were compressed under mild pressure to form pellets of approximately 10 mm diameter and 5 mm thickness, which were then coated with silver paste, as an electrode, on both sur- face sides. The electrical resistance (R) of the catalysts was measured at room temperature in atmospheric air in a frequency range of 100 kHz1 MHz. The electrical conductivity (σ) was then computed using the formula σ = R1tS1, where t is the thickness and S the cross-sectional area of the pellet. The DC conductivity was calculated by fitting the AC conductivity dis- persion with frequency using Jonschers power law (JPL) [19],σAC = σDC+Aωs, by nonlinear least squares fit analysis, where A is a constant and s is a power law exponent.
2.3. Reactivity studies
The catalytic performance of the samples was measured in a fixed-bed quartz reactor. The catalyst particles were di- luted with equal amount of quartz particles of the same size to achieve isothermal operation. The temperature in the middle of the catalytic bed was measured with a coaxial thermocou- ple. The samples were activated in flowing oxygen at 450 C for 30 min. The composition of the reaction mixture was 9.1% C2H6/9.1% O2/81.8% He.
The oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane was investigated in the temperature range 300425 C. For the determination of the activity of the catalysts as a function of temperature, the W/F ratio was kept constant at 0.54 g s/cm3. To obtain dif- ferent ethane conversion levels at constant reaction temperature (350 C), the W/F ratio was varied from 0.02 to 1.73 g s/cm3.
The stability of the catalyst with the optimum composition was studied by continuously recording the catalytic performance for 24 h on line at constant reaction conditions (T = 350 C; W/F = 0.54 gs/cm3).
The reaction products were analyzed on line by a Perkin Elmer gas chromatograph equipped with a thermal conductiv- ity detector. Two columns in a series-bypass configuration were used in the analysis, a Porapak Q and an MS 5A. The main re- action products were C2H4, CO2, and H2O. Negligible amounts of oxygenates were observed at the reactor exit. Ethane conver- sion and selectivity to the reaction products were calculated on a carbon basis. Closure of the carbon mass balance was bet- ter than 1%. The contribution of gas-phase-initiated reactions was tested by conducting experiments using an empty-volume reactor. The conversion of ethane at these experiments was <1%, confirming that gas-phase reactions are negligible at the experimental conditions used for the activity tests.
3. Results
3.1. Catalyst characterization
The composition and the main physicochemical characteris- tics of the NiNbO mixed oxides are presented in Table 1. The surface area recorded for NiO was relatively low, but increased considerably upon introduction of Nb. This increase can be at- tributed to the use of niobium oxalate as starting compound for Nb. The decomposition (during calcination) of precursors with organic nature yields a more porous structure than for the inorganic nitrate salts used for nickel oxide preparation. A max- imum surface area is recorded for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst,whereas a significant reduction is recorded for Ni0.6Nb0.4, due to the extended phase segregation and formation of large Nb2O5 crystallites (see the XRD results).
XRD was used to investigate the crystalline phases formed in the calcined catalysts. Fig. 1 illustrates the diffractograms ob- tained for all of the samples, plus that of NiO and Nb2O5 used as references. Catalysts with Nb content up to 15% relative to the total metal content exhibit only the diffraction lines corre- sponding to a crystalline NiO-like phase, with a broad band centered at 2θ 27attributed to an amorphous niobium phase.
By only slightly increasing the Nb content (catalyst Ni0.8Nb0.2) only slightly, sharp diffractions lines at 2θ 35.9, 41, and 53.8 indicate the formation of the mixed NiNb2O6 phase. In the Table 1 Nomenclature and physicochemical characteristics of the catalysts Sample Nb/Ni atomic ratio NiO loading (wt%) Surface area (m2/g) NiO aver- age crystal size (nm) NiO lattice constant
(Å)
Acidity (molNH3/ m2) NiO 0 100
16.7
31.8
4.1762
0.92
Ni0.9Nb0.1
0.111
83.49
55.9
21.4
4.1751
3.30
Ni0.85Nb0.15 0.176
76.10
85.1
16.7
4.1725
3.44
Ni0.8Nb0.2
0.250
69.21
58.6
14.3
4.1722
3.18
Ni0.7Nb0.3
0.428
56.74
57.1
14.9
4.1723
3.13
Ni0.6Nb0.4
0.666
45.74
31.4
21.6
4.1721
2.95
Nb2O5
0
32.5
5.04
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
165 Fig. 1. X-Ray diffraction patterns of the NiNbO catalysts and reference ma- terials NiO and Nb2O5. high-Nb content catalysts (Ni0.7Nb0.3 and Ni0.6Nb0.4), the in- tensity of the NiNb2O6 lines drops and crystalline Nb2O5 is detected.
Analysis of the XRD patterns allowed the calculation of par- ticle size and lattice parameters of the nickel oxide-like phase in the as synthesized mixed oxides, presented in Table 1. The XRD analysis shows that pure NiO crystallizes in the cubic rock salt structure with a lattice constant of a = 4.1762 Å, in agree- ment with reported data (JCPDS 4-835). The incorporation of Nb causes a contraction of the NiO lattice, as evidenced by the monotonous decrease of the lattice constant with increasing Nb content (Table 1) up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. Further increase of the niobium amount does not cause other alterations, and the lattice constant remains invariable. This observed decrease in the size of the NiO unit cell could be discussed in terms of a possible substitution of some of the host cations (Ni2+) by the foreign species (Nb5+). The substitution process requires that the ionic radii of host and foreign cations be similar. The ionic radii of Ni2+ and Nb5+ are 0.69 Å [20] and 0.64 Å, respec- tively; therefore, a substitution between the two cations is pos- sible and would lead to a reduction of the lattice constant, since the radii of Nb5+ is smaller than that of Ni2+. The results of the XRD analysis support this notion. This substitution process also leads to charge imbalance due to the different valency of the nickel and niobium cations, which significantly modifies the properties of the mixed NiNbO oxides, as discussed in de- tail later in the paper. The stable NiO lattice constant measured for the high-Nb loading samples (Ni0.8Nb0.2, Ni0.7Nb0.3, and Ni0.6Nb0.4) indicates that we have reached an upper limit to the maximum possible dissolution of Nb5+ cations into the NiO lattice.
Based on the foregoing, the NiO-like phase detected in the diffractograms of the NiNbO mixed oxides can be identified as a NiNb solid solution. The highest proportion of this solid solution is obtained for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 compound, whereas segregation phenomena occur between Nb2O5 and NiO phases for Nb/Ni atomic ratios >0.176. Additional information de- duced from the XRD analysis is that the NiNbO mixed ox- ides consist of crystallites in the nanorange and thus can be classified as nanomaterials. Clearly, crystallite size is always smaller for the mixed oxides than for the pure oxides. This phe- nomenon can be explained by the increased crystallographic disorder in the NiNbO catalysts, which could also be respon- sible for the high surface area recorded for the catalyst with the highest proportion of the NiNb solid solution (Ni0.85Nb0.15).
The crystal size reaches a minimum for an intermediate Nb/Ni ratio equal to 0.25 and increases with further increasing Nb con- tent. The incorporation of niobium in the nickel oxide lattice in- hibits crystallization, and thus smaller grain sizes are recorded.However, at high Nb loading and as the two phases (NiO and Nb2O5) begin to segregate, crystallization of NiO occurs more freely, leading to the detection of larger crystals. The same ef- fect has been reported for CeNixOy mixed oxides [21].
The surface morphology of the synthesized materials was examined by SEM. Micrographs of the NiNbO mixed ox- ides of all compositions, together with those of the NiO and Nb2O5 reference compounds, are presented in Figs. 2A2G.
Pure nickel oxide consists of well-defined cubic microcrystal- lites in the nanosize range, in full agreement with the XRD results. The addition of niobium induces significant changes in morphology. The Ni0.9Nb0.1 and Ni0.85Nb0.15 samples show homogeneous particles with a sponge-like appearance, reflect- ing the lower crystallinity and higher surface area detected by the previous characterization techniques and consistent with the formation of a NiNb solid solution. The EDS analysis revealed a highly homogeneous elemental distribution of Ni and Nb on these catalysts, as shown in Fig. 3A for Ni0.85Nb0.15, with the Nb/Ni atomic ratio centered on the nominal value. Further in- crease in Nb loading leads to the formation of few larger plate- like crystallites (Ni0.8Nb0.2 catalyst; Fig. 2D), whereas on the high-Nb content samples (Ni0.7Nb0.3 and Ni0.6Nb0.4), a clear change of the surface morphology is apparent. The particles of sponge-like appearance disappear, and the catalysts consist of well-defined plate-like crystallites, corresponding to the NiNb phase, and smaller round white particles, corresponding to pure Nb2O5, as confirmed by the elemental EDS analysis presented in Fig. 3B for the Ni0.6Nb0.4 oxide.
The reducibility of the catalysts was studied with TPR in
H2. The TPR profiles, shown in Fig. 4, were acquired by con-
tinuously following the H2 signal with a quadrupole mass spec- trometer while linearly increasing temperature. Pure NiO ex- hibits a relatively narrow reduction peak with a maximum at 415 C. Calculation of the consumed hydrogen indicates to- tal reduction of Ni2+ ions to metallic Ni. The introduction of Nb significantly broadens the reduction profiles, indicat- ing modification of the catalysts and contributions from differ- ent species. The main reduction peak is shifted to 390 C in Ni0.9Nb0.1, and a broad shoulder centered at 500 C appears.
The same profile, shifted about 30 C lower, is also recorded for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst. In Ni0.8Nb0.2 we observe two dis- tinct peaks with maxima at 340 C and 460 C, ascribed to two well-defined reducible species. In view of the XRD results,166
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
Fig. 2. SEM micrographs of the NiNbO catalysts and reference materials NiO and Nb2O5: (a) NiO; (b) Ni0.9Nb0.1; (c) Ni0.85Nb0.15; (d) Ni0.8Nb0.2;(e) Ni0.7Nb0.3; (f) Ni0.6Nb0.4; (g) Nb2O5. this second peak can be attributed to the crystalline NiNb2O6 phase, detected only in this sample. This observation is also in line with literature data reporting the reduction temperature of bulk nickel niobate to be around 480 C [22]. The catalysts with 70 and 60% Ni present similar reduction characteristics,with a single rather narrow peak shifted to 360 C. A very small shoulder evident near 500 C could be due to minor amounts of NiNb2O6 still present in the high-Nb loading sam- ples.
Quantification of the TPR curves shows that hydrogen con- sumption is linearly dependent on the wt% amount of NiO in the catalysts, as graphically illustrated in Fig. 5, and corre- sponds to the total reduction of Ni ions from +2 to the metallic form. Given that Nb2O5 is irreducible under the conditions used
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
167 Fig. 3. SEM micrographs and corresponding EDS elemental analysis of niobium and nickel for (a) Ni0.85Nb0.15; (b) Ni0.6Nb0.4. in the TPR measurements (evidenced by testing of the pure nio- bium oxide), reduction of the catalysts thus occurs by removal of oxygen from NiONi and NiONb bonds. Nb incorpo- ration weakens the NiONi bonds, because the oxygen can be removed at lower temperatures than in pure NiO. Based on the electronegativity concept, the presence of niobium in the coordination sphere of nickel should decrease the electronic density of nickel (Pauling electronegativity of 1.9 for Ni and 1.6 168
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
Fig. 4. Temperature-programmed reduction profiles of the NiNbO catalysts and reference material NiO.
Fig. 5. Hydrogen consumption versus wt% NiO loading. for Nb), and thus facilitate its reduction. The high-temperature shoulders in the TPR patterns can be ascribed to the reduc- tion of formed NiONb bonds. The absence of such extended high temperature reduction in the high-Nb content samples (30 and 40% Nb) is consistent with the preferential forma- tion of niobium oxide, NbONb bonds that are irreducible, at the expense of the formation of NiONb heterolinkages. The TPR results are analogous to reducibility results obtained with NiO/Al2O3 and NiNb/Al2O3 catalysts presented in our pre- vious work [13], where the promotion with Nb caused the ap- pearance of two reduction peaks, one at lower temperature and one at higher temperature than the Nb-free sample attributed to reduction of NiONi and NiONb bonds, respectively.
Acidity was determined by TPD after saturation of the cat- alytic surface with ammonia at 100 C. In all cases the main desorption product was NH3, with traces of N2, NO, and N2O also detected. The ammonia desorption curves are compiled in Fig. 6, and the acidity of the catalysts (expressed as mol of desorbed NH3/m2) is tabulated in Table 1. Pure NiO exhibits very low acidity, with a small peak appearing at high tempera- Fig. 6. Ammonia desorption curves of the NiNbO catalysts and reference materials NiO and Nb2O5. ture (700 C) in the TPD profile. The introduction of niobium causes a significant increase in the total acidity and generates new acid sites of weak and moderate strength. The NiNbO mixed oxides are characterized by a narrow desorption peak in the range 130450 C, with maximum temperature of des- orption at 220230 C. Although mild differences between the different catalyst compositions are seen, acidity increases with increasing Nb content, reaches a maximum for a Nb/Ni ratio of
0.176, and decreases slightly at higher Nb concentrations. Pure
Nb2O5 has the highest total surface acidity, exhibiting a simi- lar TPD profile as the catalysts. It is well known that niobium oxide has high acidic properties, with the Lewis acid sites cor- responding to highly distorted NbO6 octahedra [23].
In summary, the acidic measurements show that the NiNb O mixed oxides exhibit high moderate acidity, much higher than the sum of the acidity of the individual components in each cat- alytic composition. The effect is much more pronounced if we compare, for example, pure NiO and the Ni0.9Nb0.1 catalyst,where the introduction of only 10% of Nb leads to an almost 300% increase in acidity. According to a model described by Tanabe [24], the substitution of cations Mn+ of a host oxide by cations Nm+ of another metal oxide can generate acidic centers due to the charge imbalance along MON linkages. This acid- ity is defined as Brnsted or Lewis based on whether this excess charge is negative or positive, respectively. The model structure postulates that each cation retains its parent coordination num- ber, whereas all oxygen anions in the binary oxide maintain the coordination of the major component oxide. The applica- tion of these assumptions to the NiONb2O5 system explains the remarkable increase in acidity exhibited by the NiNbO catalysts compared to pure nickel oxide. Bulk NiO is a well- known nonstoichiometric oxide with cationic vacancies [25].
Therefore, the filling of the cationic vacancies and/or the sub- stitution of Ni2+ ions by Nb5+ in the NiO lattice creates an excess positive charge along the NiONb linkages, and thus
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
169 Fig. 7. Raman spectra of the NiNbO catalysts and reference materials NiO and Nb2O5. the mixed oxide should exhibit high Lewis acidity. As already discussed, the acidity reaches a maximum for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst and then decreases slightly for higher Nb content. The XRD data indicate, based on the calculated NiO lattice con- stant, that maximum solubility of niobium cations in NiO is attained for the same catalyst (Ni0.85Nb0.15), confirming that the observed acidity is related to the formation of NiONb bonds. A further increase in the Nb/Ni ratio results in extended segregation of the NiO and Nb2O5 phases and, consequently, in fewer NiONb bonds and relatively reduced acidity.
Raman spectra of the NiNbO mixed oxides collected at ambient conditions are presented in Fig. 7, including the spec- tra of reference NiO and Nb2O5 compounds. NiO exhibits a strong band at 500 cm1 due to the NiO stretching mode, with a shoulder at 410 cm1 indicative of the nonstoichiometry of the material [20] and the high nickel vacancy concentration.
The Raman spectrum of Nb2O5 exhibits two strong features at 695 and 235 cm1, with a shoulder appearing at 310 cm1 and a broad band in the 8001000 cm1 range. Niobium pentoxide generally has an octahedrally coordinated NbO6 structure that is distorted to varying extents depending on whether its poly- hedra are corner- or edge-shared. Highly distorted NbO6 octa- hedra have Nb=O bonds, whereas the slightly distorted ones have only NbO bonds [26]. The band at 695 cm1 is assigned to the symmetric stretching mode of the niobia polyhedra, and its position and sharpness reveals an ordered structure and an increasing bond order of the [NbO6] units, crystallized in the pseudohexagonal phase (TT-Nb2O5). The Raman bands in the low-wavenumber region, 200300 cm1, are characteristic of the bending modes of the NbONb linkages, whereas the ad- ditional weak band centered at 900 cm1 is due to a small concentration of the Nb=O surface sites of highly distorted oc- tahedra [27].
Table 2 Nominal and surface atomic composition (derived from XPS) of the catalysts Sample Nominal composition (%) Surface composition (%) Ni Nb
O
Ni Nb
O
NiO 50
50
46.06
53.94
Ni0.9Nb0.1 42 5 53
39.90
6.05
54.64
Ni0.85Nb0.15 38 7 55
39.61
6.51
54.50
Ni0.8Nb0.2 35 9 57
38.08
7.63
55.03
Ni0.7Nb0.3 29 12 59
40.01
6.04
54.53
Ni0.6Nb0.4 23 15 62
25.44
13.96
62.14
The introduction of Nb in NiO with a Nb/Ni atomic ratio of 0.111 results in the appearance of a weak broad band cen- tered at 850 cm1, in addition to the features of NiO. With increasing Nb content, this band becomes more intense and shifts to 840 cm1 for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst. In the spec- trum of the Ni0.8Nb0.2 catalyst, this feature develops into a well-defined band, red-shifted to 800 cm1. The nature of sur- face NbOx species supported on several carriers (SiO2, Al2O3, ZrO2, TiO2) has been investigated in detail by Raman and in- frared spectroscopy by Wachs and co-workers [28]. Accord- ing to this study, vibrations of Nb=O bonds of monomeric and polymeric niobia species generally occur at wavenumbers above 950 cm1; therefore, the broad band detected in the 950 750 cm1 range in our samples cannot be assigned to any pos- sible surface niobia structures on nickel oxide having niobium oxygen double bonds. Lower frequency vibrations in the 850 950 cm1 range have been attributed to symmetric stretchings of [ONbO]n bonds [28]. It is thus possible that the broad bands observed on the Raman spectra of the NiNbO mixed oxides result from vibrations of bridging NbONb bonds of surface species or/and vibrations of bridging NiONb bonds located on the surface of the NiO structure.
Additional bands originating from well-ordered crystalline [NbO6] polyhedra appear at 695 and 235 cm1 in the spectra of the Ni0.7Ni0.3 and Ni0.6Nb0.4 catalysts, indicating the crystal- lization of niobium in the pure oxide form in agreement with the XRD results. Moreover, it should be mentioned that the Ni0.6Nb0.4 sample is highly inhomogeneous and Raman spectra acquired from white particles in the sample are identical to that of pure Nb2O5 (spectrum shown in Fig. 7), confirming the sig- nificant formation of pure niobium oxide crystals detected by XRD and EDX analysis.
The surface composition of the mixed nickelniobium ox- ides was determined by XPS, because this technique has a surface-specific character and allows quantitative determina- tion of the elemental content in the upper layers of the sample.
The nominal and surface atomic composition of the synthesized catalysts is presented in Table 2. The values of the surface com- position were derived from the integration of the Ni 2p, Nb 3d,and O 1s core-level photoemission spectra, using the appropri- ate sensitivity correction factors. Concerning pure NiO, a nickel atom deficiency and an excess concentration of oxygen on the surface is apparent, consistent with the Raman indications and the general consensus in literature about the nonstoichiometric nature of NiO [20,25]. Furthermore, the color of the sample (gray) is also proof of the nonstoichiometry of the material,170
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
because stoichiometric NiO is green. In the series of the Ni NbO catalysts with varying Nb/Ni ratio, the surface composi- tions for Nb/Ni ratios from 0.11 to 0.43 (catalysts Ni0.9Nb0.1, Ni0.85Nb0.15, Ni0.8Nb0.2, and Ni0.7Nb0.3) appear similar irre- spective of the different nominal content, leading to an average Ni surface coverage of 40% and an average Nb surface cover- age of 6.5%. This observation is in agreement with our previous results on promoted-Ni/Al2O3 catalysts [13], where the prefer- ential exposure of the promoter or the nickel on the surface was found to depend largely on the surface energy, not the compo- sition, of the respective oxides. Therefore, in multicomponent systems the surface composition is the result of a thermody- namic driving force, according to which surface acquires the composition that leads to the lowest possible surface energy.
Thus, the similar surface compositions detected for four of the five catalysts indicates that this preferential surface exposure of nickel and niobium in a fixed analogy, independent of the nom- inal content, is energetically the most favorable arrangement of the surface. Only the catalyst with the highest Nb content, the Ni0.6Nb0.4 catalyst, constitutes an exception to the above, with the surface composition approaching the nominal values. This could be due to the severe segregation and formation of crystals of the independent oxides that was detected on this sample, as well as the samples high inhomogeneity (Figs. 2F and 3B).
Electrical conductivity measurements carried out on oxide- based catalysts can provide valuable information on the nature of structural defects, the existence of oxidizing species, and so on [29]. Furthermore, investigating the electrical properties provides important insights, particularly in the case of redox reactions, because these properties are closely related to the na- ture and reactivity of the oxygen species formed on activation of the oxidant (O2) on the catalytic surface. Numerous previous studies have correlated the catalytic performance of metal ox- ide catalysts in partial oxidation reactions with the conductivity of the oxide materials, for example, ethane to ethene [30,31],propane to propene [3234], n-butane to butenes [35,36], and butane to maleic anhydride [37].
The DC electrical conductivity of the NiNbO mixed ox- ides and of pure nickel and niobium oxide at room temperature is plotted as a function of the Nb/Ni atomic ratio in Fig. 8. NiO exhibits high conductivity, in accordance with data reported previously [38]. Doping of NiO with even the smallest amount of Nb (Ni0.9Nb0.1 catalyst) causes a decrease in conductivity by more than an order of magnitude. Further increases in Nb load- ing do not cause significant alterations, with a slight decreasing trend with increasing Nb content leading to the very small value exhibited by pure Nb2O5 (two orders of magnitude lower than NiO).
As mentioned earlier, bulk NiO is a well-known p-type semiconductor with conductivity attributed to cation deficiency [39,40], justifying the high value recorded for pure NiO. The cationic vacancies induce the formation of positive holes p+,the main charge carriers, which are introduced in the form of Ni3+ or Oions to maintain charge neutrality conditions [41,42]. Concerning the NiNbO catalysts, the formation of a NiNb solid solution, suggested by previous characterization techniques, is directly confirmed by the conductivity measure- Fig. 8. DC electrical conductivity measured at ambient conditions versus Nb/Ni atomic ratio.
Fig. 9. Temperature-programmed oxygen desorption curves of NiO and Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst. ments. From an electrical standpoint, the dissolution of het- erovalent ions in the lattice of a host oxide creates free charge carriers (electrons or holes) to maintain electrical neutrality.
The dissolution of higher valence cations, such as Nb5+, in the p-type NiO lattice suggests an n-doping character of Nb. Nio- bium oxide is an n-type semiconductor with nonstoichiometry arising from a lack of oxygen ions and free electrons as main charge carriers. Therefore, niobium acts as a donor of electrons and fills the electron (hole) states on Ni, thereby reducing the positive hole p+ concentration and, consequently, the conduc- tivity compared with pure NiO, consistent with our results.
Based on the nonstoichiometry and consequent high con- ductivity of NiO, the presence of electrophilic oxygen radicals (O) on the NiO surface is expected. Indeed, NiO has been reported to accommodate a large amount of surface excess oxy- gen [38]. As shown earlier, the incorporation of Nb ions in the NiO lattice reduces the p+ concentration and thus should reduce the amount of excess oxygen that the surface can accommo- date. To verify this hypothesis, we performed O2-TPD mea- surements on pure NiO and the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, which,according to the characterization results, has the highest pro- portion of the NiNb solid solution. The profiles of oxygen desorption with increasing temperature are compiled in Fig. 9.
Indeed, NiO exhibits a large oxygen desorption peak in the 450850 C range, with maximum temperature of desorption
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
171 at 695 C, in agreement with O2-TPD measurements on NiO reported previously [15]. The amount of oxygen desorbed cor- responds to a 1.14% excess of oxygen (mol) per mole of NiO. It has been reported previously that oxygen desorption from NiO occurring at temperatures below 700 C corresponds to the non- stoichiometric oxygen [43]. For the Nb/NiO catalyst, a much smaller desorption peak, asymmetric on the high-temperature side, is recorded, with a Tmax of desorption at 625 C. The de- sorbed oxygen amounts to only a 0.2% excess of oxygen per mole of catalyst, clearly confirming that the introduction of Nb minimizes the nonstoichiometry of the material, fills the NiO cationic vacancies, and reduces the chemisorbed oxygen species on the catalytic surface. It should be noted that repe- tition of the O2-TPD experiments without prior O2 adsorption yielded the same desorption patterns. This, in combination with the absence of low-temperature oxygen desorption peaks, indi- cates that NiO and the Nb-doped NiO materials do not adsorb oxygen at the experimental conditions used in this study (am- bient conditions), and that the desorbed oxygen originates from the bulk structure of the materials under study.
3.2. Catalytic performance in ethane ODH
The activity of the NiNbO mixed oxide catalysts in the ethane oxidative dehydrogenation reaction was explored un- der steady-state conditions at 300425 C with a constant W/F (0.54 g s/cm3) and ethane-to-oxygen ratio (1/1). Ethane con- version is plotted as a function of temperature in Fig. 10.
Note that in all cases, oxygen conversion did not exceed 90%.
Generally, all tested catalysts prove to be very reactive, ef- fectively converting ethane at low reaction temperatures. The incorporation of even small amounts of Nb (Nb/Ni = 0.111) in NiO causes a 100% increase in the per weight reactivity com- pared with the pure nickel oxide. Increasing the Nb content in the mixed oxides leads to increased ethane conversion, which reaches a maximum for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst (66% C2H6 conversion at 400 C). Further increases result in a decline in reactivity, which still, however, remains higher than that of pure NiO, except for the highest-Nb loading catalyst (Ni0.6Nb0.4), in which a sharp decrease is observed. Pure Nb2O5 oxide tested Fig. 10. Ethane conversion as a function of temperature (reaction conditions: W/F = 0.54 gs/cm3, C2H6/O2 = 1/1). under the same reaction conditions exhibited negligible activity (<1% ethane conversion) at 300450 C, with ethene selectiv- ity not surpassing 65% even at this low conversion levels.To account for the different surface areas of the samples,the activity of the catalysts in terms of specific surface activ- ity (SSAc)expressed as mol C2H6 consumed/(m2 s)was also considered. Based on this definition, the reactivity of the tested catalytic materials at 300 C decreased in the follow- ing order: NiO > Ni0.85Nb0.15 > Ni0.9Nb0.1 > Ni0.8Nb0.2 > Ni0.7Nb0.3 > Ni0.6Nb0.4. Pure NiO now exhibits a higher sur- face reactivity for ethane activation compared with the Ni NbO oxides, due to the large increase of the surface area on incorporation of Nb (which thus lowers the surface activity of the catalysts). However, as shown in the next paragraph, ethane activation on NiO is unselective, leading to combustion (see Section 4). The activity trend is maintained for the NiNbO catalysts, with optimum reactivity exhibited by Nb/Ni ratios of
0.1110.176.
The most important requirement for a good ODH cata- lyst is the ability to effectively convert ethane to ethylene at low temperature with high selectivity. To study the selectiv- ity of the mixed NiNbO oxides, and since selectivity is generally strongly related to conversion, we conducted a sec- ond series of experiments at constant temperature (350 C),constant ethane/oxygen ratio (1/1), and varying W/F (0.02
1.73 g s/cm3), to attain different conversion levels. Ethyl-
ene selectivity as a function of ethane conversion is presented in Fig. 11. The most prominent feature is the enormous in- crease of ethene selectivity upon incorporation of Nb, climbing from 20% for NiO to 80% for the lowest Nb content cata- lyst (Ni0.9Nb0.1). Varying the Nb/Ni ratio leads to a maximum in selectivity for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst (90%), with further Nb increases decreasing selectivity slightly, down to 80% for Ni0.6Nb0.4. Overall, all NiNbO catalysts demonstrate excel- lent ability to selectively convert ethane to ethylene. It is also of great importance that selectivity remains virtually constant with increasing ethane conversion at 350 C for the conversion range studied (020%). The main problem with ODH catalysts is the secondary overoxidation of the alkene produced, which causes the drop in selectivity with increasing conversion. These mate- Fig. 11. Ethene selectivity as a function of ethane conversion (reaction condi- tions: T = 350 C, C2H6/O2 = 1/1). 172
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
Fig. 12. Ethane conversion and ethene selectivity as a function of TOS (reaction conditions: T = 350 C, W/F = 0.54 gs/cm3, C2H6/O2 = 1/1). rials exhibit very stable ethene selectivity, indicating that they are very reactive toward ethane but have a very low affinity to ethylene, thus preserving the olefin from further oxidation. An- other important advantage of the NiNbO catalysts is that the only byproduct detected is CO2, resulting from primary unse- lective oxidation of ethane.
Stability is a very important parameter that often defines the fate of a specific catalytic material for potential industrial ap- plication. In a final step, the stability of the catalyst with the optimum formulation, the Ni0.85Nb0.15 oxide, was investigated by continuously recording the catalytic performance for 24 h on-line at constant reaction conditions (T = 350 C) and high ethane conversion levels. The results of the stability test, pre- sented in Fig. 12, clearly show the high stability of the catalytic materials, with both ethane conversion and ethylene selectiv- ity maintaining their initial values for the entire time span of the experiment, which, although shorter than what is typically required for commercial application, demonstrates the high po- tential of the mixed NiNbO catalysts.
4. Discussion
NiNbO mixed oxides prove to be highly active and selec- tive catalytic materials for the production of ethene via ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, exhibiting an overall ethylene yield of 46% at 400 C. In comparison with the alumina-supported NiNb mixed oxide catalyst recently presented in one of our previous work [13], the binary NiNbO mixed oxides exhibit an impressive improvement (160%) in ethene yield. Further- more, the NiNbO materials compare favorably with most ODH catalysts reported in the literature. A summary of per- formance data for a wide variety of catalytic systems in terms of selectivity for ethene as a function of ethane conversion and reaction temperature is available elsewhere [1]. Most catalysts either exhibit high initial selectivity, which quickly drops with increasing conversion, or demand high reaction temperatures for achieving acceptable yields. The developed NiNbO cata- lysts for ethane ODH presented in this study appear to be clearly superior, combining high activity at low temperature and high ethene selectivity at high conversion levels (66% C2H6 con- version and 70% C2H4 selectivity at 400 C), with very stable Fig. 13. Specific surface activity (SSAc) in ethane ODH and surface Ni content versus nominal atomic Nb/Ni ratio. catalytic performance. A further advantage of these catalysts is that the only byproduct detected was CO2, making these ma- terials very attractive from an engineering standpoint because of the greatly reduced separation costs downstream from the reactor in any potential industrial application of an oxidative dehydrogenation process.
The key component for this excellent catalytic behavior seems to be the NiNb solid solution formed upon doping NiO with Nb. Even small amounts of niobium effectively convert NiO from a total oxidation catalyst to a very efficient ODH material. The characterization results show that up to a Nb/Ni atomic ratio of 0.176, Nb5+ ions efficiently substitute Ni2+ ions and/or fill the cationic vacancies in the NiO lattice, with higher Nb content leading to saturation of the bulk lattices sites and formation of the mixed NiNb2O6 phase and pure Nb2O5.
The surface composition of the catalysts, determined by XPS,indicates that the relative exposure of nickel and niobium on the surface is constant irrespective of the nominal Nb/Ni ratio,with the exception of the highest-Nb content catalyst, proba- bly due to the high inhomogeneity and extended segregation of the two phases detected on this sample. To obtain infor- mation on the nature of the active sites for ethane activation,the SSAc, expressed as 102 mol C2H6 consumed/(m2 s) at 300 C and differential conditions (conversion < 10%), and the surface concentration of nickel sites are plotted as a function of the nominal Nb/Ni atomic ratio in Fig. 13. A clear correla- tion between the ability of the catalytic surface to activate the ethane substrate and the number of exposed surface Ni sites is apparent, with these two values following the same trend with increasing Nb/Ni ratio. Based on this observation, we postulate that nickel centers constitute the reactive sites for the activation of alkane, whereas niobium seems to mainly affect the selec- tivity pattern modifying the route of the reaction from total to selective oxidation to olefin.What then is the functionality of niobium, and what are the modified properties that lead to the enhanced ODH behavior of the catalysts? XPS, electrical conductivity, and O2-TPD studies demonstrate that NiO is a highly conductive, nonstoichiometric oxide with cationic vacancies (excess surface oxygen). Based on data in the literature, its conductivity results from the pos- itive holes p+, which are induced by the cationic vacancies
E. Heracleous, A.A. Lemonidou / Journal of Catalysis 237 (2006) 162174
173 in the form of Ni3+ or Oions, to maintain charge neutral- ity conditions [41,42]. Iwamoto et al. [44] extensively studied the chemisorption of O2 on NiO and suggested that O2and Ospecies are the predominant species formed on the nickel oxide surface. Therefore, nonstoichiometric oxygen desorbed from NiO is believed to be in the form of electrophilic oxygen radicals. The nature and reactivity of the oxygen species on the catalytic surface is believed to be one of the key factors govern- ing the performance of metal oxide catalysts in selective oxi- dation reactions. It is widely accepted that electrophilic species (O2, O22, O) are mostly responsible for the deep oxidation reactions, whereas nucleophilic ones (O2) are involved in both the selective and unselective steps of the reaction [45].
Consequently, the low selectivity of NiO in the ethane oxida- tive dehydrogenation reaction and the preferential total oxida- tion of ethane to CO2 likely result from the highly reactive elec- trophilic single-charged oxygen species present on the nickel oxide surface. As the conductivity measurements point out, Nb incorporation causes a one-fold decrease in electrical conduc- tivity, consistent with the principle of controlled valence [25] for dissolution of higher-valence ions in the lattice of p-type host oxide. Niobium, therefore, acts as an electron donor and reduces the positive p+ hole concentration of the NiO accep- tor. In agreement with this finding, the O2-TPD experiments clearly indicate that Nb consumes or eliminates the incom- pletely reduced electrophilic oxygen species (e.g., O, O2,or O22), thus significantly suppressing the total oxidation of ethane to carbon dioxide and enhancing the selective conversion to ethylene. The excess oxygen accommodated on the surface of Ni-based catalysts reportedly correlates inversely with the selectivity to ethylene [15]. Conclusively, the elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen caused by Nb doping is very likely responsible for the high ethene selectivity exhibited by the Ni NbO mixed oxides.
5. Conclusion
The present work demonstrates the high potential of a new class of catalytic materials based on nickel as active component for the low-temperature oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene. Studying the catalytic performance of a series of Ni NbO mixed oxides (Nb/Ni atomic ratios of 00.67) clearly indicates that introducing even small amounts of Nb in NiO converts nickel oxide from an effective total oxidation catalyst to an efficient low-temperature ODH catalyst, producing ethyl- ene with a yield of 46% at 400 C. An optimum in the catalytic behavior is achieved for the catalyst containing Nb/Ni in an intermediate ratio of 0.176 (Ni0.85Nb0.15), which exhibits the highest per weight activity and selectivity to ethylene (90%).
A correlation between the ethane specific surface activity of the catalysts and the surface-exposed nickel content indicates that nickel sites constitute the active centers for activation of the paraffinic substrate, whereas niobium affects mainly the selec- tivity to the desired product, olefin. NiO is a nonstoichiometric oxide with cationic vacancies, which can accommodate large amounts of excess electrophilic oxygen radicals, strong oxidiz- ing species responsible for the total oxidation of ethane to CO2 occurring on the NiO surface. Due to the favorable ionic radii of niobium, Nb cations fill the cationic vacancies and/or substitute nickel atoms in the NiO lattice, forming a NiNb solid solution.
This substitution process is most likely responsible for the re- duction of the nonstoichiometry and the cationic defects on the surface and, consequently, of the unselective oxygen species,leading to enhanced ethane ODH activity.
The effect of niobium on the surface oxygen species partic- ipating in the reaction and its enhancing action on the ethylene selectivity is further investigated and confirmed by transient ex- periments with isotopic 18O2, presented in part II of the present series. In addition, aspects of the mechanism and the ethane ODH reaction pathways occurring over this new class of cat- alytic materials are discussed, and a macroscopic kinetic model able to predict the catalyst performance for a wide range of op- erating conditions is developed.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions (such as ethylbenzene to styrene and ethane to ethylene), and what are the key challenges in theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these catalytic systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 