Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane to propylene over VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 using lattice oxygen
Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane to propylene is studied using a new vanadium catalyst supported on CaO–γ-Al2O3 under a gas phase oxygen free atmosphere. The catalysts are synthesized with different CaO/γ-Al2O3 ratios, keeping the vanadium loading at 10 percent. The prepared catalysts are characterized using various physicochemical techniques. Raman spectroscopy reveals that the catalysts have monovanadate and polyvanadate surface species (VOx) with minute crystal particles of V2O5. FTIR spectroscopy and XRD analysis confirm the presence of V2O5, CaO and γ-Al2O3 in the catalyst. The catalysts show stable reduction and re-oxidation behavior in repeated TPR and TPO cycles, respectively. NH3-TPD shows that catalyst acidity decreases with increasing CaO content. The NH3-TPD kinetics analysis reveals that the activation energy of desorption increases with higher CaO, indicating stronger active site–support interactions. The ODH of propane experiments are conducted in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator under gas phase oxygen free conditions. Among the studied catalysts, VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) displays the highest propane conversion (65%) and propylene selectivity (85%) and a low COx due to its excellent oxygen carrying capacity, balanced acidity and moderate active site–support interactions.
1. Introduction
Propylene is one of the important feedstocks in the chemical industry to produce different valuable products. Approximately two thirds of the propylene produced worldwide is consumed in the production of thermoplastic polypropylene, a commonly used compound in the fabrication of household appliances, plastic films and many other applications. The present worldwide propylene sales/demand reaches over ninety billion dollars.1
There are three major commercial processes available for propylene production, including steam cracking, catalytic cracking (FCC) and catalytic dehydrogenation.2 The steam cracking process consumes a large amount of energy, which accounts for 70% of the overall production cost. The coke formation during the cracking of heavy hydrocarbon molecules is another drawback of the catalytic cracking process. This causes severe process operational problems, especially fouling, which requires frequent plant shut-downs for cleaning. In the FCC process, the coke generation is deliberate. The formed coke is combusted in a catalyst regenerator producing heat and is supplied back to the catalytic cracking unit using the catalyst as an energy carrier. This energy is essential for the FCC reactor to carry out the endothermic cracking reactions. In the FCC process the propylene is obtained as a by-product, in addition to the lighter gasoline and other fuels. The yield of propylene can be increased by manipulating the FCC operating conditions and using catalyst additives. Recent research shows that the FCC catalysts can also improve the propylene yield about 4.5% to 10%. However, the propylene production cost in the FCC process is still high due to the energy requirement by the endothermic cracking reactions. This high energy demand and the continuous catalyst regeneration make the FCC process capital intensive. Consequently, the building of a FCC system for the sole aim of producing propylene is not economical. The third available technology, catalytic dehydrogenation, also suffers from the problem of coke formation and high energy requirement as a result of the endothermic nature of the reaction.3
Contrary to the above discussed commercial processes, the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane to propylene is more attractive due to its low operational cost and minimal environmental impacts. The abundant availability of propane in natural gas and refinery off gases can make the propylene production by ODH propane even more sustainable compared to the conventional processes.2 Its most important advantage is the exothermic nature of the reaction, which requires no additional energy to accelerate the reaction. The formation of water as a by-product of the ODH makes it possible to avoid thermodynamic constraints as observed in the non-oxidative routes.4 However, the appropriate selection of the reactor is a key factor to achieve the above mentioned advantages of the ODH technology.5 Fixed bed reactors are simple but difficult to operate under isothermal conditions. Catalyst deactivation is another problem associated with fixed bed systems. The fluidized bed reactors have numerous advantages over the conventional fixed reactor systems. These include controlled operating conditions at constant temperature, which assist in circumventing the issues with hot spots in fixed bed reactors. The absence of limitations of mass transfer and uniform residence time distributions (RTD) is also a merit of fluidized bed reactors. Moreover, transportation of reduced catalytic species from the oxidative dehydrogenation unit to the regeneration unit is also one of the merits of fluidized bed reactors that allows periodic catalyst re-oxidation. This enables a twin reactor set up, one for oxidative dehydrogenation and the other for regeneration of catalyst, which makes this route attractive for commercial scale production.6–8
In addition to the appropriate reactor selection, the development of suitable catalysts is another key aspect for the commercial implementation of ODH processes. High yield of propylene can be obtained by employing an efficient catalyst.4 It is reported in the literature that vanadium-based catalysts give the highest alkane conversion and alkene selectivity for ODH of lighter hydrocarbons.9–24 The wisdom behind this is the provision of lattice oxygen for dehydrogenation of alkanes by vanadium catalysts.25–26 The reactions involved in the oxidation of propane include the desired propane oxidative dehydrogenation to propylene as well as combustion of propane and produced propylene to carbon oxides. High selectivity for propylene is only favorable at low propane conversions due to lower propane reactivity when compared to propylene. Thus, there is a need to design a catalyst that will provide the optimum level of lattice oxygen to selectively produce propylene with minimum carbon oxides via primary/secondary combustions.27
In vanadium-based catalysts, the activity and propylene selectivity are directly related to the structure of VOx surface species. The performance of the catalyst can be enhanced by controlling its redox properties, morphology of surface species of VOx and acid–base characteristics.28–30 The surface density of VOx increases with vanadium loading, which is the lowest for monovanadate isolated VOx species and the highest for monolayer coverage species. Catalyst activity and reducibility increases as surface density of VOx increases while its selectivity decreases as the surface density of VOx increases.31–35 Adjustments of the coordination and environment of the species of VOx can influence the catalytic behavior. The acid–base character of VOx catalyst supports has been found to have influence on propylene selectivity in ODH.4 Propane adsorption and propylene desorption are functions of the acid–base properties of the support. Adsorption of a basic reactant and desorption of an acidic product are functions of the acidity of the catalyst. The acidity of the catalyst determines the protection of these chemical species from oxidizing to carbon oxides.36 The acidic character of alkanes and their corresponding olefins diminishes with increased carbon number and degree of molecule saturation; one can hypothesize that a higher selectivity in ODH could be achieved by designing catalysts with a controlled acidic character.37,38
There are usually strong interactions between the support (carrier) and the active site (VOx). Gamma aluminum oxide is not inert towards VOx. Its interaction towards the VOx phase is not weak, hence it results in a very high dispersion of V2O5 on its surface. High vanadium loading can be achieved on γ-Al2O3, but resulting samples will show lower surface areas unlike CaO, which has a higher surface area. The use of CaO will improve a resulting catalyst's superficial area and also gives it the desired moderate level of acidity, that will maximize propane adsorption and propylene desorption and also minimize propylene and propane combustion. Hence, the synthesis of mixed γ-Al2O3/CaO supports is an interesting route to achieve catalyst samples with high dispersion of the surface active species, and a surface area that is higher than that of γ-Al2O3.39
Based on the above discussion, the present work is aimed at developing fluidizable vanadium oxide catalysts using a mixed γ-Al2O3–CaO with different γ-Al2O3/CaO ratios as support. The prepared catalysts were characterized using various physicochemical characterization techniques (XRD, FTIR, Raman spectroscopy, TPD, TRP/TPO, SEM-EDXS) to determine the desired catalyst properties. The performance of the developed catalysts on the ODH of propane was evaluated in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator under gas phase oxygen free conditions. In this approach, the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane is accomplished with the lattice oxygen of the catalysts. The major advantage of this process is the possibility of achieving higher propylene selectivity by appropriate control of the lattice oxygen of the catalysts.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Catalyst synthesis
The catalyst samples were prepared by an impregnation method through soaking with excess ethanol as solvent. The support material γ-Al2O3 (surface area of 141 m2 g−1) was received from Inframat Advanced Materials, Manchester, UK, while CaO (surface area of 4 m2 g−1) was received from Loba Chemie, India. Before metal loading, the supports were calcined under pure N2 flow at 500 °C for 4 hours to remove moisture and volatile compounds. The calcined γ-Al2O3 sample was placed in a beaker and ethanol was added. Desired amounts of vanadyl acetyl acetonate and CaO were then added to the beaker, and the mixture was left under stirring for 12 h. The mixture was then placed for sonication for 10 min. The mixture was filtered and dried at room temperature. Following natural drying, the sample was placed in an oven at 100 °C for 24 hours in order to slowly remove any remaining solvent. The dried sample was then reduced with hydrogen (10% H2 and 90% Ar) at 500 °C in an especially designed fluidized bed reactor. Finally, the reduced sample was calcined under air at 500 °C for 4 h to obtain the oxide of the catalyst. After this treatment, the catalyst color became yellow indicating the presence of V2O5 on the support surface.
Following the above approach, two catalyst samples were prepared with CaO to γ-Al2O3 weight ratios of 1 : 4 and 1 : 1, respectively, while keeping the same 10 wt% vanadium loading (VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4), VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1)). The third sample was prepared using pure CaO as support and 10 wt% vanadium (VOx/CaO). The measured BET surface areas of the prepared catalysts range from 14 to 25 m2 g−1.
2.2. Catalyst characterization
2.2.1. X-ray diffraction (XRD) The XRD patterns of all the samples were recorded on a Rigaku Miniflex diffractometer with monochromatic Cu Kα radiation of 1.5406 × 10−1 nm wavelength, an electrical current of 50 mA, an electrical voltage of 10 kV and a scan rate of 2° per minute (normal scan rate) within the 2θ range from 10–90° with a 0.02° step size. 2.2.2. Laser Raman spectroscopy The molecular structures of various metal oxide species supported on CaO–γ-Al2O3 and CaO were analyzed using a Horiba Raman spectrometer. For each experiment, 0.5 g of sample was dehydrated under dry air for an hour at 500 °C and then cooled to ambient temperature. Then each sample was analyzed using a Raman spectrometer with a thermoelectrically cooled CCD detector (−73 °C). An argon ion laser line of 532 nm wavelength was used to excite the catalyst samples. The Raman spectrometer was used for measuring and recording the spectra produced from the excitation with a resolution of 1 cm−1 at room temperature. 2.2.3. FTIR spectroscopy A Nicolet 6700 Thermo Fischer Scientific instrument was used to record the FTIR spectra of the synthesized catalyst samples and the bare support γ-Al2O3 and CaO samples. For analysis, 3 mg of sample was uniformly mixed with 0.4 g of potassium bromide. The infrared spectra of pelletized samples were later recorded in the range of 400–4000 cm−1. 2.2.4. SEM-EDXS analyses For SEM analysis, the catalyst samples were dispersed on a stub that is taped with copper tape. Each of the samples were coated with gold in order to eliminate charge build-up, obtain better contrast and enhance visibility at magnification of one million times. 2.2.5. Temperature programmed reduction (TPR) A Micromeritics AutoChem II 2920 analyzer was used to conduct H2-TPR experiments at 101.3 kPa. For TPR analysis, 0.05 g of catalyst sample was loaded in a U-shaped quartz tube using glass wool to hold the catalyst particles inside. Before analysis, the sample was pretreated under Ar flow at 500 °C to remove any volatile component. After pretreatment, the sample was completely oxidized by circulating a gas mixture of 5% O2 and He balance, at 500 °C with a heating rate of 10 °C min−1. The sample was then cooled down to ambient temperature under argon flow to ensure flushing out any gas phase O2 that might be trapped in the catalyst bed. The temperature programmed reduction experiment was carried out by circulating a gas stream of 10% H2/Ar at 50 cm3 min−1. Under these conditions, the sample temperature was raised from the room temperature to 850 °C at a heating rate of 10 °C min−1. A calibrated thermal conductivity detector (TCD) detected the variation of the hydrogen concentration due to the reduction of the catalyst samples. 2.2.6. Temperature programmed desorption (TPD) The acidity and acid strength of the catalyst were investigated using ammonia temperature programmed desorption analysis. The NH3-TPD desorption kinetics analysis also helps evaluating the metal–support interactions of the supported catalyst. The NH3-TPD experiments were conducted using an AutoChem II 2029 Analyzer received from Micromeritics, USA. Similar to the TPR experiments, 0.5 g catalyst sample was first loaded into the U-shaped quartz container and degassed for 2 h at 500 °C under Ar flow at 30 ml min−1. The sample was then cooled to 120 °C and brought to saturation with ammonia using a NH3/He gas mixture (5% NH3/He) at a rate of 50 ml min−1. Following the ammonia saturation, the system was purged with helium at 100 °C at 50 cm3 min−1 to remove any gas phase ammonia in the system and unadsorbed ammonia trapped in the catalyst bed. For desorption analysis, the catalyst bed temperature was raised from room temperature to 750 °C at 10 °C min−1. The ammonia chemisorbed was desorbed as the temperature was elevated to 750 °C. The ammonia concentration of the effluent gas was monitored by the thermal conductivity detector.
2.3. Fluidized ODH of propane
The gas phase oxygen free ODH propane experiments were conducted in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator (CREC: Chemical Reactor Engineering Centre). The CREC Riser Simulator, a bench scale fluidized reactor (53 cm3), is very useful for catalyst evaluation and kinetic studies. It has several outstanding advantages including the simulation of fluidized conditions of a riser/downer reactor even with a small amount of catalyst, minimization of mass transfer limitations by using small sized catalyst particles, constant residence time distributions and controlled isothermal conditions. The CREC Riser Simulator reactor operates alongside different accessories, which include temperature controllers, a gas chromatograph, a vacuum box, a main power switch, a water pressure indicator and a push button selector. The details of the CREC Riser Simulator can be found in Al-Ghamdi et al. (2012).6
Propane ODH runs were carried out at different temperatures ranging from 550 °C to 640 °C while the contact time was varied between 10–31 s. The reaction temperatures were selected within the reduction temperature range of the catalysts as determined from the TPR study, given that the solid catalysts are the only source of oxygen. The ODH of propane experiments were conducted using 0.5 g of catalyst. The oxidized catalyst sample was loaded into the catalyst basket located in the lower shell of the main reactor body of the CREC Riser Simulator. Following the catalyst loading, the system was pressurized up to 30 psi at room temperature to perform a leak test. A stable pressure reading at closed conditions confirmed the absence of any leak. Now the reactor is ready to be heated to the desired temperature. During the heating period, the system was maintained under argon flow to keep the reactor from any air interference. Once the reactor reached the desired temperature level, the argon flow was stopped. Consequently, the reactor pressure started to decrease sharply. The four-port valve was closed, as the reactor pressure approached one atm (14.7 psi). Following the isolation of the reactor, the vacuum pump was turned on to evacuate the vacuum box down to 20.7 kPa (3.75 psi). A preloaded syringe was used to inject 1.2 ml of feed (propane) into the reactor after setting the impeller in motion. The pressure transducer was used to record the pressure profile of the reactor. At the end of the reaction period, the reactor contents were evacuated into the vacuum box. The gas product contained in the vacuum box was analyzed by gas chromatography (GC) using both a thermal conductivity detector (TCD) and a flame ionization detector (FID). Catalyst performance was studied based on propane conversion, selectivity and yield given below.
(1)
(2)
where zj and nj are the number of atoms of carbon and moles of gaseous carbon containing product j, respectively. npropane is the mole of unconverted propane in the product stream.
3. Results and discussion
3.1. XRD analysis
Fig. 1 shows the XRD patterns of the three VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 catalyst samples with different amounts of CaO and γ-Al2O3 and with the same amount of VOx. For the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) and VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) samples, the γ-Al2O3 peaks appeared at 2θ angles of 48° and 67°. The peaks which appeared at 32°, 38° and 55° can be attributed to CaO.27,40 All three samples confirmed these peaks and expectedly the intensity of the CaO peaks decreased when the content of CaO in the sample decreased. The 19.5° peak on the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) and VOx/CaO catalyst samples can be ascribed to V2O5 crystals. Small V2O5 peaks were also detected in the CaO sample at 2θ angles above 60°. This observation indicates that the VOx species in the catalyst samples mainly appeared as a highly dispersed amorphous phase on the support samples.18 The other probable phases, AlV2O9 and CaV2O6, were also not detected in any of the catalyst samples. One can infer from this observation that the reaction between vanadium and the support materials γ-Al2O3 and/or CaO is negligible during the treatment even at 750 °C.
Fig. 1 XRD patterns of VOx/CaO and VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 catalyst samples.
3.2. Laser Raman spectroscopy
Fig. 2 presents the Raman spectra of the catalyst samples, which were obtained at ambient temperature. The Raman spectra analysis suggests that all the three catalyst samples VOx/CaO, VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1), VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) contain both monovanadate and polyvanadate with minute crystal particles of V2O5. The band at 870 cm−1 is attributed to the stretching mode of the polyvanadate species (V–O–V). The 1069 cm−1 broad band is ascribed to the stretching mode of the VO bond in isolated monovanadate surface species.27 All other bands appearing around 180, 285, and 345 cm−1 are ascribed to bulk V2O5 crystals.27
Fig. 2 Raman spectra of VOx/CaO and VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 catalyst samples.
3.3. FTIR analysis
Fig. 3 displays the FTIR spectra of VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4), VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) and VOx/CaO catalysts. The infrared band at 880 cm−1 wavenumber represents γ-Al2O3. CaO has bands at 450 cm−1, 1410 cm−1, and 3650 cm−1. Vanadium oxide has an infrared band at 1014 cm−1.41–43 The absorption peak at 450 cm−1, 1410 cm−1, and 3650 cm−1 confirms the presence of CaO in all the samples. The band at 1014 cm−1 confirms the presence of V2O5 in the catalyst samples and the band at 880 cm−1 confirms the presence of γ-Al2O3 in the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) and VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) catalyst samples. The peak at 1014 cm−1 corresponds to a strong terminal oxygen bond (V5+O).43
Fig. 3 FTIR absorption spectra of VOx/CaO and VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 catalyst samples.
3.4. SEM-EDX analysis
Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) together with energy dispersive X-ray analysis (EDX) was carried out to determine the metal dispersion. A representative field emission scanning electron microscope image of one of the catalyst samples VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) is presented in Fig. 4a. The images of the elemental distribution can be used to envisage the quality of the dispersion. The dispersion of the element vanadium over the oxygen carrier samples is shown in Fig. 4b. It is evident that vanadium particles are well dispersed on the CaO–γ-Al2O3 support.
Fig. 4 a. SEM images of VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1). b. Vanadium elemental mapping in the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1).
3.5. Reduction and oxygen carrying capacity
TPR/TPO is an important technique for the characterization of gas phase oxygen free ODH catalysts. It gives information about the reducibility and regeneration ability of the catalyst as expected during the actual ODH reaction with propane (eqn (3) and (4)).
TPR:
V2O5 + 2H2 → V2O3 + 2H2O (3)
ODH of propane:
C3H8 + ½V2O5 → C3H6 + H2O + ½V2O3 (4)
One can see that both the TPR (eqn (3)) and ODH of propane (eqn (4)) reduce V2O5 to V2O3. On the other hand, the TPO cycle (eqn (5)) represents the catalyst regeneration cycle following the reduction in TPR.
TPO:
V2O3 + O2 → V2O5  (5)
In addition, the TPR/TPO data can be further processed to determine the oxygen carrying capacity of the catalysts for the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane without any additional gas phase oxygen (catalyst reduction cycle). Therefore, TPR analysis indicates the temperature range of catalyst activation and amount of available lattice oxygen for ODH of propane.
Fig. 5 presents the TPR profiles of the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 catalyst with different CaO to γ-Al2O3 ratios. The TPR profiles show that the VOx/CaO sample has two humps between 95–287 °C and 300–430 °C while VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) shows only one hump between 260 and 450 °C due to the highly reducible VOx species that appeared on the support surfaces. The low temperature reduction hump with the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) sample was less pronounced than the other two samples. In addition to the initial reduction humps, all the three catalyst samples exhibit a major reduction peak between 520–580 °C. While the initial reduction hump can be attributed to the reduction of bulk V2O5-like surface species, the major peak confirmed the presence of monomeric and polymeric VOx species. For all the catalyst samples, there was no peak attributed to CaO or Al2O3. This is due to the fact that calcium and aluminum are higher in the electrochemical series compared to vanadium and hydrogen. Indeed, the temperatures that will be required for reduction of CaO and Al2O3 with hydrogen are higher than the temperature range considered in the TPR experiment. However, the reduction peak temperatures of the samples significantly varied with the variation of the CaO content in the catalyst formulation. The peak temperature of the lowest CaO containing VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) sample was 515 °C. With the increase in the CaO content, for the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) sample, the peak temperature shifted to 560 °C. The CaO supported VOx/CaO sample shows the highest peak temperature at 583 °C. This shift of reduction temperature is possibly due to the increased active site–support interactions introduced by the addition of CaO.44,45
Fig. 5 Temperature programmed reduction profiles of VOx/CaO and VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 catalyst samples.
The TPR data were further processed to evaluate the degree of reduction for the three catalyst samples. The degree of reduction can be defined as the percentage of VOx reduced to the actual quantity of vanadium oxide available in the catalyst. The exposed reducible VOx was calculated from the amount of hydrogen uptake evaluated by numerical integration of the resulting temperature programmed reduction peak area. The mass of reducible vanadium oxide in the catalyst sample was evaluated using the molar volume of gas at STP, volume of hydrogen uptake, molecular weight of vanadium oxide and stoichiometric number of hydrogen in the gas–solid reaction involved in reduction. The percentage of vanadium oxide reduction can be calculated using the following relations:
(6)
(7)
where (1) WV is the amount of reduced vanadium (g), (2) MWv is the molecular weight of vanadium (g mol−1), (3) VH2 is the volume of reacted hydrogen (cm3 at STP), (4) Vg is the molar volume of gas (cm3 mol−1 at STP), (5) Wo is the initial weight of vanadium (g) and (6) v is the stoichiometric number of hydrogen based on the following reaction stoichiometry. Assuming that V2O5 is the initial reducible catalyst species present on the support, then the following reduction equation applies:
V2O5 + 2H2 → V2O3 + 2H2O (8)
Table 1 shows the hydrogen uptake of the catalyst samples. One can see from this table that the hydrogen uptake increased at higher CaO contents in the catalyst samples. The higher hydrogen uptake is possibly due to the higher dispersion of vanadium species as observed in the low temperature reduction humps of the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) and VOx/CaO catalysts. The increased basicity with higher quantity of CaO also contributes to the increased hydrogen consumption, given the acidic nature of hydrogen gas, which has higher affinity to catalysts with higher basicity.
Table 1 TPR data comparing hydrogen consumption of VOx/CaO and VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 catalyst samples
Sample H2 uptake (mmol g−1) (% reduction) % Error
1st 2nd 3rd 4th Average
VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) 1.9 (48%) 1.8 (46%) 1.8 (45%) 1.8 (45%) 1.8 1.6
VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) 2.6 (65%) 2.5 (63%) 2.4 (62%) 2.4 (62%) 2.5 2.5
VOx/CaO 2.9 (72%) 2.8 (70%) 2.8 (70%) 2.7 (69%) 2.8 1.8
In order to assess the oxygen carrying capacity and stability, the catalyst samples were subjected to repeated TPR and TPO cycles. The hydrogen consumption in each TPR cycle was measured using the calibrated TCD signals. The percentage of reduction of the catalysts in each TPR cycle calculated from the hydrogen uptake data is presented in Table 1. It was observed that in the repeated TPR/TPO cycles, the hydrogen uptake for the samples was within 2.5% error range (Table 1). This observation indicates that the oxygen carrying capacity of the catalyst remains stable over the repeated redox (TPR/TPO) cycles.
3.6. NH3-TPD
The acid sites of the three catalyst samples were characterized by TPD using NH3 as the basic probe molecule. The area of the TPD curve peak gives the acid amount while the position of the peak indicates the acid distribution in the catalyst samples. Ammonia TPD can distinguish sites only by sorption strength, hence its shortcoming lies in its inability to differentiate between Lewis and Bronsted acid sites. Ammonia was used in this research work to make comparison of the total acidity and acid strength for the catalyst samples with different CaO/Al2O3 ratios. Fig. 6 shows the relationship between the desorption volume as a function of the temperature. One can easily see that all three samples show similar TPD profiles although the peak intensity and desorption peaks shifted with the variation of the CaO/Al2O3 ratios. The NH3-TPD profile for the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4), VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) and VOx/CaO samples showed an initial desorption peak at 183, 300, and 302 °C followed by a high temperature desorption peak at 676, 636 and 620 °C, respectively. Clearly, the intensities of the high temperature desorption peaks were significantly higher than that of the low temperature peaks. This indicates that the percentage of the strong acid sites is much higher than the weak acid sites. The total acidity of each sample was calculated by integrating the calibrated TPD profiles. Table 2 shows the uptake of NH3 by the three catalyst samples and their respective temperature of desorption. Expectedly, the total acidity of the catalyst samples decreased when increasing the CaO content, which is due to the basic nature of CaO.
Fig. 6 NH3-temperature programmed desorption profiles for the catalyst samples.
Table 2 Catalyst acidity as measured by NH3-TPD
Catalyst sample Peak temperatures °C NH3 uptake (mmol g−1)
Low temp High temp Low temp High temp Total
VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) 183 676 0.55 (17%) 2.69 (83%) 3.24
VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) 300 636 0.54 (21%) 2.04 (79%) 2.58
VOx/CaO 302 620 0.55 (26%) 1.58 (74%) 2.13
3.7. NH3-TPD kinetics study
An ammonia desorption kinetics study was conducted to determine active site–support interactions in the catalyst samples. The activation energy of ammonia desorption and the pre-exponential factors were estimated by modeling the NH3-TPD experimental data of each catalyst sample. Cvetanovic and Amenomiya described the desorption rate as a function of temperature, which is based upon the following assumptions:6,8
(i) Temperature (T) of desorption has a linear relationship with time (t).
(ii) The rate of desorption is of first order in coverage.
(iii) The concentration of ammonia gas through the catalyst bed is uniform.
(iv) Desorbed ammonia has zero feasibility for re-adsorption.
(v) The catalyst's surface is homogenous for the NH3 adsorption, which means that for the desorption constant, kd = kdo exp(−E/RT). The desorption constant is independent of the surface coverage.
Suitable experimental conditions were selected in order to satisfy the assumptions in (i) and (iii). A high flow of ammonia gas through the catalyst bed was maintained in order to satisfy the assumption in (iv). Unimolecular desorption of ammonia was assumed in order to consider the assumption in (ii).
The ammonia desorption rate at a uniform first order energy of desorption can be evaluated using a component balance of desorbing NH3.
(9)
where Tm is the centering temperature in °C, Vm is the volume of NH3 adsorbed at saturated conditions in ml g−1, Vd is the volume of ammonia desorbed at different temperatures in ml g−1, θ is the surface coverage of the adsorbed species, E is the energy of ammonia desorption in kJ mol−1, and kdo is the pre-exponential factor in ml g−1 min−1.
Temperature (T) in a TPD experiment has a linear relationship with time (t).
T = To + αt (10)
where T is the desorption temperature at time (t).
(11)
(12)
(13)
(14)
(15)
The first order ordinary differential equation was solved using the separation of variable method to obtain the following equation:
(16)
Vo and To are the initial volume desorbed in ml g−1 and the initial desorption temperature. R is the universal gas constant in kJ mol−1 K−1; the heating rate, α, was taken as 10 °C min−1.
The TPD data obtained from the experiment and the proposed model have good agreement for all the catalyst samples as shown in Fig. 7. This proves the validity of the proposed desorption model. The TPD data was correlated to the resulting equation (eqn (16)) using the non-linear regression analysis tool of MATLAB. Hence, the desorption energies and pre-exponential factors of each catalyst sample were obtained. The norm of the residuals and the coefficient of correlation were calculated for each catalyst sample using MATLAB and MINITAB software at 95% confidence limit.
Fig. 7 Experimental data and fitted model of ammonia desorption during NH3-TPD for different catalyst samples.
The energy of desorption for the three synthesized catalysts is reported in Table 3. Statistical properties such as the correlation coefficient R2, norm of residuals and 95% confidence intervals were considered in the analysis. The values of R2 and residual norms for all the three catalysts are close to 1 and 0, respectively, which shows that the proposed desorption model is applicable.
Table 3 Estimated parameters for ammonia-TPD kinetics at 10 °C min−1
Sample E (kJ mol−1) kdo (ml g−1 min−1) × 105 Norm of residuals × 104 (mmol g−1)
VOx/CaO–Al2O3 (1 : 4) 39.2 3.8 2.1 3.24
VOx/CaO–Al2O3 (1 : 1) 74.8 1.3 6.4 2.58
VOx/CaO 96.3 0.5 22.7 2.13
The values in the table show that as the loading of CaO is increased and that of γ-Al2O3 is decreased, the energy of desorption increases. This can be explained based on the amount of ammonia uptake for each of the catalyst. The catalyst with the highest desorbed ammonia has the lowest desorption energy while the one with the lowest desorbed ammonia has the highest desorption energy. A similar observation was described by Al-Ghamdi et al.27 on γ-Al2O3 supported VOx catalysts where a higher desorption energy corresponds to a lower amount of NH3 adsorbed from the catalysts. The increase in the activation energy can also be linked to the heterogeneity of the catalyst samples. The interaction between the mixed support and the active site (VOx) would also play a significant role in the value of energy required during the gas–solid reactions involved during the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane under the gas phase oxygen free conditions. Weak active site–support interactions would allow an easy reaction between VOx and propane/propylene as opposed to strong active site–support interactions. However, these surface oxygens are less selective to the formation of propylene. Hence, the moderate active site–support interactions as shown by the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) catalyst can be favorable to achieve higher propylene selectivity.
3.8. Catalyst evaluation
The gas phase oxygen free oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) of propane experiments were conducted in a fluidized CREC Riser Simulator using pure propane (99.95% purity) as feed. Before performing the actual catalytic ODH runs, thermal experiments (without any catalyst) were conducted to confirm contribution of any thermal conversion. The highest reaction temperature (640 °C) was selected for the thermal experiments. The GC analysis of the thermal run products showed mainly unconverted propane and a trace amount of ethane and methane most likely due thermal cracking of propane in the absence of a catalyst.
In the catalytic experiments, the reaction temperature was varied between 550 and 640 °C, while the reaction was attuned from 10 to 31 s. The product analysis of the preliminary experimental runs shows that the product is composed of unreacted propane, propylene and carbon dioxide. Under the studied reaction conditions, no hydrogen was detected, indicating the absence of cracking and/or dehydrogenation. The propane conversion and product selectivity in the experimental repeats are found to be within 2.5% error limits (Fig. 8). Mass balances were established for each of the three repeats of each individual run. The mass balance closed consistently in excess of 95%. From the product analysis, one can consider the following possible reaction steps during the fluidized ODH of propane runs in the absence of gas phase oxygen:
(17)
Complete oxidation of propane: C3H8 + 5V2O5 ↔ 3CO2 + 4H2O + 5V2O3 (18)
(19)
therefore, it is very important to identify the best reaction conditions in order to achieve the highest possible propylene yield and suppress the complete combustion reactions which produce CO2. Keeping the above in mind the following experiments were conducted under different conditions to demonstrate the effects on the propane conversion and product selectivity of (i) the consecutive propane injection without catalyst regeneration, (ii) reaction temperatures and (iii) contact times.
Fig. 8 Propane (C3H8) conversion and propylene (C3H6) and CO2 selectivity and their error limits in repeated runs at T: 640 °C; cat.: 0.5 g; propane injected: 1.2 ml.
3.8.1. Successive propane injections The successive oxidative dehydrogenation of propane without catalyst regeneration experiments were conducted to demonstrate the effects of the degree of catalyst reduction on the propane conversion and product distribution. To ensure the same reaction conditions, the reactor was loaded with 0.5 g of catalyst and the temperature was maintained at 640 °C. Further, in each run, the same amount (1.2 ml) of propane was injected and the reactions were allowed to proceed for 17 s. Fig. 9 plots the propane conversion and propylene and carbon oxide selectivity over the successive injection of propane runs. One can see in Fig. 9(a) that all three VOx/CaO–Al2O3 catalysts give the highest propane conversion in the first injection, which gradually decreased in the following successive propane injections. The availability of the oxygen in the catalyst surface mainly contributed to the high propane conversion in the first injection. The appreciable levels of catalyst activity after all the four successive injections can be attributed to the lattice oxygen availability in the catalyst matrix. On the other hand, the diminishing trend of the propane conversion is due to the progressive consumption of lattice oxygen in the catalysts. Among the three catalysts, VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) displays the highest propane conversion and propylene selectivity. This is consistent with its moderate acidity, moderate active site–support interactions and balanced oxygen carrying capacity compared to the other two catalysts as observed in the TPR analysis.
Fig. 9 a. Conversion of propane in successive propane injections without catalyst regeneration. b. C3H6 and CO2 selectivity in successive propane injections without catalyst regeneration (T: 640 °C; cat.: 0.5 g; propane injected: 1.2 ml, time: 17 s; experimental repeats: ±2.5% standard deviation).
The selectivity of both the desired propylene and undesired carbon dioxide also significantly varies during the successive propane injection runs as seen in Fig. 9(b). Unlike propane conversion, the first injection gives the lowest propylene selectivity and the highest carbon dioxide selectivity. This indicates that the surface oxygen favors the complete oxidation of propane/propylene producing carbon dioxide. The propylene selectivity significantly increased in the second injection; after that the increment became minimal in the remaining runs although the increasing trend is still evident. This variation in selectivity indicates that an optimum level of lattice oxygen is required to maximize selectivity to propylene and minimize selectivity to carbon dioxide.
The above observations are in line with the fact that selectivity to propylene in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over VOx-based catalysts is affected positively by the binding energy between the lattice oxygen and the catalyst.46 At higher oxidation state of the catalyst, the binding energy of the lattice oxygen is low (low active site–support interaction), which eventually leads to combustion of propane/propylene to carbon oxides. Furthermore, the surface oxygen atoms on the fresh or regenerated catalyst are loosely bonded with the catalysts, which easily react with propane/propylene to produce carbon dioxide. In this case, a selective catalyst surface would be obtained only after consumption of the bulk V2O5-like surface species in the first propane injection.
When compared with the other two catalysts, VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) shows significantly higher propylene selectivity. It also shows lower carbon dioxide selectivity than that of the VOx/CaO catalyst. This catalyst shows up to 96% propylene selectivity while the higher CaO containing catalysts produces up to 83% propylene. This can be attributed to the moderate level of acidity of VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) as depicted in the NH3-TPD results. This observation is also consistent with the XRD and TPR results. The appropriate balance of CaO/Al2O3 influences the VOx dispersion forming more isolated non-crystalline VOx species, which favors the propylene formation and suppresses the complete oxidation to CO2. Furthermore, the increased V–support interaction with the CaO promoted sample (revealed by the TPD kinetics analysis) also favors propylene production by a controlled ODH reaction between propane and lattice oxygen of the catalyst. There are studies in the open literature which showed propylene selectivity as a function of the oxidation state of vanadium-based catalysts.6,34,43,46–49 Lopez-Nieto et al.34 found that the selectivity to propylene and butylene, with usage of propane and butane as the feed, respectively, could be strongly influenced by the reducibility of the vanadium-based catalyst. Balcaen et al.47 also observed the same trend for ODH of propane over vanadium-based catalysts. Ethane ODH over a γ-alumina supported vanadium catalyst in the absence of oxygen, as shown by Al-Ghamdi et al.,46 also confirms that the absence of gas-phase oxygen is important for the selective conversion of alkane to alkene with the binding energy of lattice oxygen as the main driver of the reaction.
3.8.2. Effect of reaction temperature Fig. 10(a and b) present propane conversion and the desired product propylene and undesired carbon dioxide selectivities at different reaction temperatures and a constant 17 s contact time. These experiments are conducted using oxidized catalysts. After each run the catalyst was re-oxidized by circulating air through the catalyst bed. One can see that the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) sample shows very low conversion at 550 °C, which is consistent with its higher initial reduction temperature as observed in the TPR analysis (Fig. 5). The VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4) catalyst sample is mainly reduced between 520 and 580 °C. Therefore, there is only a small fraction of lattice oxygen available for reaction at 550 °C, leading to a low propane conversion. In contrast, both the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) and VOx/CaO samples show some reduction at low temperatures, which might have contributed to the higher propane conversions at 550 °C when using these two samples. The propane conversion increased with the increasing reaction temperature as the lattice oxygen of the catalyst is activated at higher temperature (Fig. 5, TPR analysis). Interestingly, when increasing the reaction temperature, all the catalyst showed increased propylene selectivity and decreased carbon dioxide selectivity (Fig. 10(b)). The variation in the degree of reduction of the catalyst with the reaction temperatures was responsible for the rise in the selectivity of propylene. At higher temperatures, the degree of catalyst reduction increases (Fig. 5, TPR analysis) as a result of the lower binding energy of lattice oxygen. At such higher degrees of reduction of the catalysts, the selective pathway toward ODH is preferred over that for combustion as observed in the successive propane injection experiments. The good selectivity to propylene can also be attributed to the non-formation of larger molecules due to the interaction of the mixed support and the active site of each catalyst. Among the three studied catalysts, VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) shows the highest propylene selectivity. The carbon dioxide selectivity with this catalyst is also lower than that of the VOx/CaO catalyst while slightly higher than the VOx/CaO–γAl2O3 (1 : 4) catalyst. The superior propylene selectivity of the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) can be attributed to the moderate level of acidity of VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) as depicted in the NH3-TPD results.
Fig. 10 a. Conversion of propane at different temperatures. b. C3H6 and CO2 selectivity at different temperatures (cat.: 0.5 g; propane injected: 1.2 ml, time: 17 s; experimental repeats: ±2.5% standard deviation).
3.8.3. Effect of contact time Propane ODH experiments were carried out at 10, 17, 24 and 31 s in order to study the effect of contact time on propane conversion, propylene selectivity and carbon oxide selectivity at the optimal temperature, 640 °C. It is evident that propane conversion for all catalysts increases with the contact time as shown in Fig. 11(a). The propylene selectivity slightly increases from 10 to 17 s and after that it decreases with contact time (above 17 s). Conversely, the carbon dioxide selectivity slightly increases from 17 to 31 s (Fig. 11(b)). The decrease of propylene selectivity and increase of carbon dioxide selectivity at higher contact time are mainly due to the consecutive oxidation of propylene and/or complete oxidation of propane to carbon dioxide.27
Fig. 11 a. Conversion of propane at different contact times. b. C3H6 and CO2 selectivities at different contact times (cat.: 0.5 g; propane injected: 1.2 ml, T: 640 °C; experimental repeats: ±2.5% standard deviation).
The above observation suggests that, although the higher contact time favors high propane conversions, the optimum or moderate contact time favors high propylene selectivity and low carbon dioxide selectivity. The good selectivity to propylene obtained from the three catalysts can be attributed to the high proportion of monovanadate VOx species which was detected from the laser Raman spectroscopy results. Again, VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) shows the highest propane conversion and propylene selectivity. This can be attributed to the moderate level of acidity of VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) as depicted in the NH3-TPD results.
Thus, one can conclude that the performance of the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 4), VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) and VOx/CaO catalyst samples is strongly influenced by both contact time and temperatures as well as catalyst regeneration. It can be inferred that successive feed injections are the best for the ODH reaction, since it is only on completion of the successive reaction cycles that catalysts could be regenerated. This can be applied industrially using a fluidized bed reactor that has reactor–regenerator compartments and has the ability to transfer a small percentage of the catalyst to the regenerator.
Fig. 12 presents propylene and carbon dioxide selectivities as a function of propane conversion at constant temperature. One can see that with increasing propane conversion, propylene selectivity decreases which is compensated by increasing CO2 selectivity. All the three catalysts show similar trends. This suggests that propylene is the primary reaction product of propane while CO2 comes from deep oxidation of propane as well as consecutive oxidations of propane and propylene.
Fig. 12 C3H6 and CO2 selectivities as a function of C3H8 conversion at constant temperature (cat.: 0.5 g; propane injected: 1.2 ml, T: 640 °C; experimental repeats: ±2.5% standard deviation).
The performance of the catalyst of our present study, VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1), is compared with the ODH catalyst performance from past literature (Table 4). There is an appreciable comparison of the propylene selectivity of the VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) catalyst with the other catalyst as shown in the table. This suggests that the ODH of propane with lattice oxygen (gas phase oxygen free conditions) is promising to enhance the propylene selectivity even at higher propane conversion.
Table 4 Comparison of performance of VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 with other ODH catalysts in the literature
Catalyst Reactivity temperature °C Propane conversion% (at the highest selectivity) Highest propylene selectivity % Ref.
17.5% MoO/γ-Al2O3 380 1.3 77 50
17.5% MoO/γ-Al2O3 380 1.7 83 50
5% VOx/γ-Al2O3 550 11.7 86 27
VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1) 525–600 65.1 85.2 The present study
4. Conclusions
The following are the conclusions of the present study:
i. By using FTIR, Raman spectroscopy and XRD, V2O5, CaO and γ-Al2O3 species were detected in the synthesized catalysts. The XRD showed a very small amount of crystalline VOx phases. The remaining VOx appeared as an amorphous phase.
ii. SEM images and elemental mapping showed good vanadium oxide dispersion on the mixed CaO–γ-Al2O3 support.
iii. The repeated TPR/TPO experiments showed consistent reduction and re-oxidation behavior of the prepared catalysts. The oxygen carrying capacity of the catalysts was increased with increasing CaO content.
iv. The acidity of the catalysts progressively decreased with increasing CaO content, as revealed by NH3-TPD analysis.
v. The activation energy of ammonia desorption decreased due to the increased amount of CaO reflecting higher active site–support interactions. The increased active site–support interaction controls the reaction of the lattice oxygen and favors propylene as the selective product.
vi. Gas phase oxygen free conditions favored the formation of selective product propylene and minimized complete oxidations to COx. A higher degree of catalyst reduction favored the propylene selectivity.
vii. The catalyst with intermediate acidity and moderate active site–support interactions (VOx/CaO–γ-Al2O3 (1 : 1)) displayed the highest propylene selectivity (85%) at higher propane conversion (65%).
viii. The isolated VOx phases, as observed in FTIR spectroscopy and XRD, are favorable towards higher propylene selectivity.
Acknowledgements
The author(s) would like to acknowledge financial support provided by the King Abdul Aziz City for Science and Technology (KACST) to this project under research grant number AT-32-67.
References
“Market Study: Propylene, Ceresana Research, February 2011”, ceresana.com. Retrieved 2011-02-13.
R. D. Ashford Ashford's Dictionary of Industrial Chemicals , 2011, pp. 7766–7769 Search PubMed .
S. A.Al-Ghamdi, Oxygen-free propane oxidative dehydrogenation over vanadium oxide catalysts: reactivity and kinetic modeling, Ph.D. dissertation monograph, 2013.
E. Heracleous , M. Machli , A. A. Lemonidou and I. A. Vasalos , Oxidative dehydrogenation of dehydrogenation of ethane and propane over vanadia and molybdena supported catalysts, J. Mol. Catal. A: Chem., 2005, 232 , 29 —39 CrossRef CAS .
L. Chalakov , L. K. Rihko-Struckmann , B. Munder and K. Sundmacher , Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane in an electrochemical packed-bed membrane reactor: Model and experimental validation, Chem. Eng. J., 2009, 145 , 385 —392 CrossRef CAS .
S. A. Al-Ghamdi , M. Volpe , M. M. Hossain and H. I. de Lasa , VOx/c-Al2O3 catalyst for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene: desorption kinetics and catalytic activity, Appl. Catal., A, 2013, 450 , 120 —130 CrossRef CAS .
A. W. H. Elbadawi , M. S. Ba-Shammakh , S. A. Al-Ghamdi , S. A. Razzak and M. M. Hossain , Reduction kinetics and catalytic activity of VOx/γ-Al2O3-ZrO2 for gas phase oxygen free ODH of ethane, Chem. Eng. J., 2016, 284 , 448 —457 CrossRef CAS .
I. A. Bakare , M. Shamseldin , S. A. Razzak , S. A. Al-Ghamdi , M. M. Hossain and H. I. de Lasa , Fluidized bed ODH of ethane to ethylene over VOx-MoOx/γ-Al2O3 catalyst: Desorption kinetics and catalytic activity, Chem. Eng. J., 2015, 278 , 207 —216 CrossRef CAS .
M. M. Bhasin Is true ethane oxydehydrogenation feasible, Top. Catal., 2003, 4 , 145 —149 CrossRef .
L. Capek , R. Bulanek , J. Adam , L. Smolakova , H. Sheng-Yang and P. Cicmanec , Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over vanadium-based hexagonal mesoporous silica catalysts, Catal. Today, 2009, 141 , 282 —287 CrossRef CAS .
L. Capek , J. Adam , T. Grygar , R. Bulanek , L. Vradman , G. Kosova-Kucerova , P. Cicmanec and P. Knotek , Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane over vanadium supported on mesoporous materials of M41S family, Appl. Catal., A, 2008, 342 , 99 —106 CrossRef CAS .
F. Klose , T. Wolff , H. Lorenz , A. Seidelmorgenstern , Y. Suchorski , M. Piorkowska and H. Weiss , Active species on γ-alumina-supported vanadia catalysts: Nature and reducibility, J. Catal., 2007, 247 , 176 —193 CrossRef CAS .
A. Klisinska , S. Loridant , B. Grzybowska , J. Stoch and I. Gressel , Effect of additives on properties of V2O5/SiO2 and V2O5/MgO catalysts II. Structure and physicochemical properties of the catalysts and their correlations with oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and ethane, Appl. Catal., A, 2006, 309 , 17 —27 CrossRef CAS .
B. Grzybowska , A. Klisinska , K. Samson and I. Gressel , Effect of additives on properties of V2O5/SiO2 and V2O5/MgO catalysts: I. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and ethane, Appl. Catal., A, 2006, 309 , 10 —16 CrossRef .
M. V. Martinez-Huerta , X. Gao , H. Tian , I. E. Wachs , J. L. G. Fierro and M. A. Banares , Oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene over alumina-supported vanadium oxide catalysts: Relationship between molecular structures and chemical reactivity, Catal. Today, 2006, 4 , 279 —287 CrossRef .
R. Grabowski and J. Sloczynski , Kinetics of oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and ethane on VOx/SiO2 pure and with potassium additive, Chem. Eng. Process., 2005, 44 , 1082 —1093 CrossRef CAS .
E. P. Reddy and R. S. Varma , Preparation, characterization, and activity of Al2O3-supported V2O5 catalysts, J. Catal., 2004, 221 , 93 —101 CrossRef CAS .
F. Bozon-Verduraz , D. I. Enache , E. Bordes and A. Ensuque , Vanadium oxide catalysts supported on titania and zirconia: II. Selective oxidation of ethane to acetic acid and ethylene, Appl. Catal., A, 2004, 278 , 103 —110 Search PubMed .
D. I. Enache , E. Bordes , A. Ensuque and F. Bozon-Verduraz , Vanadium oxide catalysts supported on zirconia and titania: I. Preparation and characterization, Appl. Catal., A, 2004, 278 , 93 —102 CrossRef CAS .
P. Concepcion , M. T. Navarro , J. M. Lopez-Nieto , T. Blasco , B. Panzacchi and F. Rey , Vanadium oxide supported on mesoporous Al2O3: Preparation, characterization and reactivity, Catal. Today, 2004, 96 , 179 —186 CrossRef CAS .
Z. Zhao , Y. Yamada , A. Ueda , H. Sakurai and T. Kobayashi , The roles of redox and acid–base properties of silica-supported vanadia catalysts in the selective oxidation of ethane, Catal. Today, 2004, 95 , 163 —171 CrossRef .
G. Busca , M. Panizza , C. Resini , F. Raccoli , R. Catani and S. Rossini , Oxidation of ethane over vanadia-alumina-based catalysts: co-feed and redox experiments, Chem. Eng. J., 2003, 93 , 181 —189 CrossRef .
A. T. Bell , E. Iglesia , M. D. Argyle and K. Chen , Ethane Oxidative Dehydrogenation Pathways on Vanadium Oxide Catalysts, J. Phys. Chem. B, 2002, 106 , 5421 —5427 CrossRef .
H. I. de Lasa , M. Volpe and G. Tonetto , Butane dehydrogenation on vanadium supported catalysts under oxygen free atmosphere, Appl. Catal., A, 2004, 272 , 69 —78 CrossRef .
A. T. Bell , A. Dinse and R. Schomacker , The role of lattice oxygen in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane on alumina-supported vanadium oxide, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2009, 29 , 6119 —6124 Search PubMed .
E. A. Mamedov and V. C. Corberfin , Oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes on vanadium oxide-based catalysts. The present state of the art and outlooks, Appl. Catal., A, 1995, 127 , 1 —40 CrossRef CAS .
S. A. Al-Ghamdi and H. I. de Lasa , Propylene production via propane oxidative dehydrogenation over VOx/γAl2O3 catalyst, Fuel, 2014, 128 , 120 —140 CrossRef CAS .
A. Khodakov , B. Olthof , A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia , Structure and catalytic properties of supported vanadium oxides: support effects on oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, J. Catal., 1999, 181 , 205 —216 CrossRef CAS .
M. A. Banares Supported metal oxide and other catalysts for ethane conversion: a review, Catal. Today, 1999, 51 , 319 —348 CrossRef CAS .
I. E. Wachs and B. M. Weckhuysen , Structure and reactivity of surface vanadium oxide species on oxide supports, Appl. Catal., A, 1997, 157 , 67 —90 CrossRef CAS .
J. M. Lopez-Nieto , J. Soler , P. Concepcion , J. Herguido , M. Menendez and J. Santamaria , Oxidative Dehydrogenation of Alkanes over V-based Catalysts: Influence of Redox Properties on Catalytic Performance, J. Catal., 1999, 185 , 324 —332 CrossRef CAS .
K. Chen , A. T. Bell and E. Iglesia , The relationship between the electronic and redox properties of dispersed metal oxides and their turnover rates in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, J. Catal., 2002, 209 , 35 —42 CrossRef CAS .
F. Roozeboom , M. C. Mittelmeijer-Hazeleger , J. A. Moulijn , J. Medema , V. H. J. Beer De and P. J. Gellings , Vanadium oxide monolayer catalysts. 3. A Raman spectroscopic and temperature programmed reduction study of monolayer and crystal type vanadia on various supports, J. Phys. Chem., 1980, 84 , 2783 —2791 CrossRef CAS .
J. M. Lopez-Nieto The selective oxidative activation of light alkanes from supported vanadia to multicomponent bulk V-containing catalysts, Top. Catal., 2006, 41 , 3 —15 CrossRef CAS .
G. Che-Galicia , R. Quintana-Solórzano , R. S. Ruiz-Martínez , J. S. Valente and C. O. C. Araiza , Kinetic modeling of the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane to ethylene over a MoVTeNbO catalytic system, Chem. Eng. J., 2014, 252 , 75 —88 CrossRef CAS .
H. Kung , P. M. Michalakos , M. C. Kung and I. Jahan , Selectivity patterns in alkane oxidation over Mg3(VO4)2–MgO, Mg2V2O7, and (VO)2P2O7, J. Catal., 1993, 140 , 226 —242 CrossRef .
J. Santander , E. López , A. Diez , M. Dennehy , M. Pedernera and G. Tonetto , Ni–Nb mixed oxides: One-pot synthesis and catalytic activity for oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane, Chem. Eng. J., 2014, 255 , 185 —194 CrossRef CAS .
J. P. Bortolozzi , T. Weiss , L. B. Gutierrez and M. A. Ulla , Comparison of Ni and Ni–Ce/Al2O3 catalysts in granulated and structured forms: Their possible use in the oxidative dehydrogenation of ethane reaction, Chem. Eng. J., 2014, 246 , 343 —352 CrossRef CAS .
N. E. Quaranta , J. Soria , V. Cortés Corbéran and J. L. G. Fierro , Selective Oxidation of Ethanol to Acetaldehyde on V2O5/TiO2/SiO2 Catalysts, J. Catal., 1997, 171 , 1 —13 CrossRef CAS .
R. Molinder , T. P. Comyn , N. Hondow , J. E. Parkerc and V. Duponta , In situ X-ray diffraction of CaO based CO2 sorbents, Energy Environ. Sci., 2012, 5 , 8958 —8969 CrossRef CAS .
A. Imtiaz , M. A. Farrukh , M. Khaleeq-ur-rahman and R. Adnan , Micelle-Assisted Synthesis of Al2O3·CaO Nanocatalyst: Optical Properties and Their Applications in Photodegradation of 2,4,6-Trinitrophenol, Sci. World J., 2013, 2013 , 1 —11 CrossRef PubMed .
M. Sadeghi and M. H. Husseini , A Novel Method for the Synthesis of CaO Nanoparticle for the Decomposition of Sulfurous Pollutant, J. Appl. Chem. Res., 2013, 7 , 39 —49 Search PubMed .
X. Zhou , G. Wu , J. Wu , H. Yang , J. Wang and G. Gao , Carbon black anchored vanadium oxide nanobelts and their post-sintering counterpart (V2O5 nanobelts) as high performance cathode materials for lithium ion batteries, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2014, 16 , 3973 —3982 RSC .
H. Bosc , J. K. Bert , J. G. Van Ommen and P. J. Gellings , Factors influencing the temperature programmed reduction profiles of vanadium pentoxide, J. Chem. Soc., Faraday Trans., 1984, 80 , 2479 —2488 RSC .
M. M. Koranne , J. G. Goodwin and G. Marcelin , Characterization of silica and alumina supported vanadia catalysts using temperature programmed reduction, J. Catal., 1994, 148 , 369 —377 CrossRef CAS .
S. A. Al-Ghamdi , M. M. Hossain and H. I. de Lasa , Kinetic modeling of ethane oxidative dehydrogenation over VOx/Al2O3 catalyst in a fluidized-bed riser simulator, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2013, 52 , 5235 —5244 CrossRef CAS .
V. Balcaen , I. Sack , M. Olea and G. B. Marin , Transient kinetic modeling of the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane over a vanadia-based catalyst in the absence of O2, Appl. Catal., A, 2009, 371 , 31 —42 CrossRef CAS .
O. S. Owen , M. C. Kung and H. Kung , The effect of oxide structure and cation reduction potential of vanadates on the selective oxidative dehydrogenation of butane and propane, Catal. Lett., 1992, 12 , 45 —50 CrossRef CAS .
D. Creaser , B. Andersson , R. R. Hudgins and P. L. Silverston , Transient kinetic analysis of the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, J. Catal., 1999, 182 , 264 —269 CrossRef CAS .
T. V. M. Rao and G. Deo , Kinetic Parameter Analysis for Propane ODH: V2O5/Al2O3 and MoO3/Al2O3 catalysts, AIChE J., 2007, 53 , 2432 —2442 CrossRef .
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2016