<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. The experimental parameters had a beneficial effect on the concentration of Zrcus4+ ions, and the concentration of surface lattice oxygen, which in tandem play an active role in propane activation.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.
The preparation of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt.
The enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
The stability was improved in the presence of CO2 (compared to DDH); ca. 74% of the original activity was retained after 10 h on-stream, which is relatively good compared to Ga- and Cr-based catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
The role of CO2 in ODH-CO2 is to assist the above equilibrium by removing H2via the RWGS reaction.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
The initial STY of this catalyst was 10.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 13, entry 4), which is amongst the most active reported to date, but requires significant improvements to its on-stream stability.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 (Table 13) and some Ga2O3 catalysts (Table 12).
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
The authors concluded that the relative proportions of V3+, V4+ and V5+ species present on the catalyst surface were affected by V loading and at the optimal loading of 12 wt%, a high concentration of isolated V3+ species was detected.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
The combined and synergistic effect of the surface acidity modifications, their influence on the active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitated desorption of propene and inhibited the deep dehydrogenation that leads to coke precursors.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The highest STY achieved was 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 7).
The moderate vanadium doping level was conducive to highly dispersed vanadium species in the form of isolated and low-polymerized VOx species.
Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability.
The STY was 6.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 5), due to the low GHSV so while the catalyst achieved high selectivity at reasonable propane conversion, it was not as intrinsically active as other supported VOx catalysts.
The most active catalyst, V/Si-beta (having 3 wt% V loading) displayed an initial propene yield of 33.4% and retained activity over multiple dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The STY was 4.4 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 6), which is 56 times less active than the most active VOx catalysts reported to date, suggesting that Si-beta does not facilitate a high concentration of active V sites.
It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).
The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species.
For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C.
This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported.
The STY of ZrO2 without VOx is actually much higher than in the current work.
The most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method.
The role of the other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear so further work to elucidate this could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.
The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels.
The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation.
The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.
The preparation of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.
The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond.
The metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.
The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
It was found that over 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2, the propene yield increased from 6.5% to 9.1% when CO2 was co-fed instead of Ar.
In contrast, the alumina supported catalyst was inhibited by the addition of CO2, as shown by the drop in propene yield from 12.7% to 3.3%.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/AC material was unaffected by CO2 addition.
The Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
Relative to many other metal oxides, Cr2O3 is considered to be one of the most promising catalysts for ODH-CO2.
Takehira et al. compared the catalytic performance of several d block and p block oxides (namely Cr, Ga, Ni, V, Fe, Mn and Co) supported on MCM-41, at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 molar ratio of 5.6.
After 30 min on-stream, the propene yield of the Cr-based catalyst was 15% whereas for the Ga-based counterpart it was 5%.
The remaining catalysts all exhibited lower propene yields (in the 14% range).
However, as the catalysts were not characterised, it is unclear if the dispersion of these catalysts was comparable, and therefore if the results reflect the true intrinsic activity of each metal.
It was also noted that the order of reactivity resembled the trends observed by Nakagawa et al. for diamond-supported metal catalysts in the DDH reaction.
This suggests that there are commonalities in catalyst design between DDH and ODH-CO2 which most likely relate to the interaction of the alkane with the catalyst.
Contrary to this, Zhang et al. compared ZrO2, SBA-15 and γ-Al2O3 as supports for Cr2O3 in the DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions.
They found that the highest propene yield was observed with different catalyst systems under different dehydrogenation reactions, i.e., the activity trends in DDH did not translate to ODH-CO2 catalysts.
Specifically, Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was the most active for the DDH reaction, while the highest yield of propene for the ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions was observed over Cr2O3/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 7).
Across all the catalysts however, the highest propene yields were generally observed in the DDH reaction, ascribed to the production of carbon oxides in the ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 reactions.
However, it was reported that Cr2O3/ZrO2 was more stable on-stream in ODH-CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
Wu et al. also observed increased stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2 in the presence of CO2 (Table 11, entry 4).
They reported that the CO formation rate was higher than the CO2 consumption rate and the excess CO was suggested to originate from the Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C  2CO); this could explain the increased stability of this catalyst.
It is possible that some dry reforming of propane also took place, which would produce H2 and CO.
Zhao et al. recently reported the facile preparation of Cr supported in mesoporous ZrO2 using an evaporation-induced self-assembly method (Table 11, entry 6).
The authors suggested that propene could react with carbon dioxide to form carbon monoxide, methane and water.
Other studies have reported a stronger inhibition effect for Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2.
For instance, Ferreira et al. studied the adsorption properties of CO2 and concluded that it binds strongly to active Cr2O3 sites, lowering the activity and stability of the catalyst,
whereas Xie et al. suggested that coke formation could originate from CO2 hydrogenation over Cr2+ species.
These conflicting reports may relate to the structural polymorph of ZrO2 present in the catalyst support; this factor is often overlooked, but recent studies from Kondratenko et al. revealed that nanocrystalline ZrO2 is an active DDH catalyst in its own right151,152 under similar reaction conditions.
The ZrO2 crystal phase and crystallite size were strongly correlated to the catalyst activity: smaller crystallites were more active but amorphous ZrO2 had very low intrinsic activity.
Moreover, monoclinic ZrO2 was more active than tetragonal ZrO2.
Cr2O3-catalysed ODH-CO2 has been examined over different polymorphs of SiO2,254256 including various structured porous oxides, including SBA-1,84 SBA-15,250,257 MCM-41,91 amorphous silica84 and mesoporous silica spheres.258
Notably, Michorczyk et al. reported a detailed comparison of different silica supports, coupled with an in-depth characterisation study.84
It was shown that in each case, the same active Cr species was formed, namely Cr6+, but higher surface area silicas (e.g., SBA-1 and SBA-15) were able to facilitate a higher number of such sites.
A clear correlation was found between the rate of propene formation and the wt% of Cr6+, as determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).
In DDH, while Cr6+ is considered active, under reaction conditions Cr3+ is rapidly formed and considered the principle active species.93,94
The selectivity to propene was similar across the different silica supports (8893%), with the observed differences being attributable to differences in propane conversion rather than catalytic properties.
These Cr2O3/SiO2 catalysts were highly active at 550 C and the most active catalyst (Cr2O3/SBA-1) achieved a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, as shown in Table 11, entry 12.
It should be noted that the experiments were carried out with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 5, which as discussed above, has been shown to enable a higher equilibrium yield of propene.
Therefore, in studies where high conversions are generally targeted and carbon dioxide is in excess of propane, higher propene yields are reported.
Takehira et al. carried out X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) on CrOx/MCM-41, confirming that the reduction of Cr6+ occurs during the reaction.91
Specifically, they identified Cr6+O4 tetrahedra as the active species.
These Cr3+O6 octahedra were formed after reduction, which were considered to be less active.
It was shown that CO2 could re-oxidise the Cr, which suggests that the redox cycle between Cr6+ and Cr3+ is an important process during the reaction.
Yi et al. discriminated between isolated Cr6+ and polymeric Cr6+, finding that after reduction, isolated Cr3+ was more active than polymeric Cr3+. This underlines the importance of Cr dispersion in these catalysts.259
In a more detailed examination of Cr2O3/SBA-1, the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the catalyst and the observed activity were explored.85
Michorczyk et al. found a strong positive correlation between the initial propene yield and the reducibility of the catalyst, specifically the H2 consumption.
In situ UV-vis measurements revealed that Cr6+ is rapidly reduced to Cr3+ or Cr2+ in the presence of C3H8 under reaction conditions.
The reaction proceeds through a Mars-Van Krevelen mechanism, via the Cr2+/3+ redox couple.
Rapid deactivation, typical of Cr2O3 catalysts, was observed, although the majority of the initial activity could be recovered after regeneration in air.
The remainder was ascribed to pore collapse and/or the formation of inactive Cr sites, although the loss of surface Cr sites through agglomeration was not considered.
Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260
The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene.
While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air.
This severely limits the utility of this catalyst.
Zeolites have also been considered as catalyst supports for Cr2O3.
Zhang et al. prepared CrOx/Na-ZSM-5 via incipient wetness.261
Although the initial conversion and selectivity was high (48% and 86%, respectively) (Table 11, entry 5), the catalysts deactivated rapidly and the reaction conditions were such that the STY was only 2.5 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 2.
Zhu et al. investigated a range of MFI supports, including silicalite-1 and H[B]MFI.262
CrOx/H[B]MFI was found to be the most active catalyst, giving a STY of 4.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C with a CO2:C3H8 of 1 (Table 11, entry 15).
Although the as-prepared catalyst exhibited typically poor stability for Cr catalysts, steam treating the catalyst resulted in a marked improvement.
After 60 h on-stream, the as-prepared catalyst retained only 25% of its initial conversion, while the steam treated catalyst retained ca. 74%.
The authors ascribed the effect to stabilised Cr3+ formed in the steam treatment.
Presumably the reduction of Cr6+ during the reaction results in an inactive or less active Cr3+ species.
It should also be noted that the as-prepared catalyst was initially almost twice as active as the steam treated catalyst, which leaves the possibility that at higher conversions, increased coke formation may have occurred which would exaggerate the deactivation compared to the steam treated catalyst.
Ideally such stability comparisons would be made at isoconversion, however this discovery is one of only a few that shows improved stability on-stream.
Recently, Michorczyk et al. prepared a Cr-β-zeolite and investigated the effect of dealumination, which clearly elucidated the effect of acidity on the catalytic performance.263
It was reported that the dealuminated catalyst, Cr-SiBeta, exhibited significantly higher propene yields (up to 27%), compared to the Al-containing catalyst, Cr-AlBeta (2%).
The presence of acid sites in the Cr-AlBeta catalyst resulted in cracking pathways that led to increased production of methane and ethene.
Moreover, the CrAlbeta catalyst performed less well in the presence of CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
This was explained by the strong adsorption of CO2 on the catalyst, similar to the inhibition observed over Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts.
The stability of the dealuminated catalyst was also improved compared with CrAlbeta, but significant loss in activity was observed over the 4 h reaction.
In considering the redox properties of the catalysts in this work, and their previous investigations, the authors also identified a strong correlation between the H2 consumption from H2-TPR studies and the reported propene yield, as shown in Fig. 10.
While the majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial.
Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264
After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream.
In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period.
Using three-stage H2-TPR experiments (where the catalyst is reduced twice under H2 and then re-oxidised in CO2 before the final H2-TPR program), the authors showed that the addition of Ni facilitated the re-oxidation of Cr during the reaction.
This is consistent with previously reported mechanisms of deactivation over Cr-based catalysts, although coking is also often reported to cause deactivation.
Interestingly, the promoted catalyst was marginally more prone to coking.
This strongly suggests that overreduction of active Cr sites is the key deactivation mechanism over these catalysts.
There is a lot of potential to develop promoted Cr catalysts that could enhance the redox activity of the catalyst; precious metals including Pd and Pt are often supported on reducible supports for this purpose.265
Crucially, it was found that above 0.5 wt% Ni, propane reforming was prevalent, which underlines the importance of appropriate loadings of promotors.
O'Brien et al. investigated the effect of a Ru promoter to a 10 wt% CrOx/SiO2 catalyst.
Consistent with Yun et al. it was shown that the propene formation rate was increased.
A 1 wt% Ru loading was optimal and doubled the activity.
Interestingly, this is approximately the same molar ratio reported as the optimum by Yun et al. for Ni-promoted CrOx/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 14).
Another similarity was the propensity of reforming to dominate at high loadings (>1 wt%).
The enhanced stability seen in Ni-promoted Cr catalysts was not observed in this work and the activity could not be fully recovered after regeneration.
Consequently, aggregation of Cr species was suggested as an additional deactivation mechanism in addition to coke formation and overreduction of Cr.
Rather than aid Cr re-oxidation in a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation, the authors concluded that the Ru promotes the RWGS reaction, which removes H2 and increases the equilibrium conversion of propane.
However, the results of three-stage H2-TPR reactions indicated that Cr can be more easily oxidised in the presence of Ru, which suggests that Ru can participate in a similar role as Ni-promoted Cr catalysts.
Overall supported chromium oxide catalysts represent one of the most active classes of ODH-CO2 catalysts, with STY values in the range of 222 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
The correct balance of acidic and basic sites is a key consideration in catalyst design.
Equally, the ratio of carbon dioxide to propane is important to take in account, as it has kinetic and thermodynamic implications.
Thermodynamically, higher CO2:C3H8 ratios limit coke forming side-reactions.
The addition of CO2 in the dehydrogenation reaction has multiple effects: As discussed in Section 2, it facilitates the RWGS reaction which removes H2 from the system and shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium limit to favour propene production.
Additionally, CO2 can dissociate on the surface of a catalyst and provide O species to dehydrogenate propane directly.
Finally, it can react with coke via the reverse-Boudouard reaction to produce CO, which can potentially extend the lifetime of the catalyst.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial.
Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial, Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
Using NH3-TPD analysis, the authors concluded that weak Lewis acid sites were conducive to high activity.
These acidbase properties most likely contribute to the enhanced stability as well; it is known that stronger acid sites promote oligomerisation pathways that produce coke.
The increased performance of Ga2O3/ZSM-48 was attributed to the abundance of weak and medium strength acid sites.
The low activity of Ga2O3/MgO and Ga2O3/SiO2 was ascribed to the absence of medium and strong acid sites.
In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced.
This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
It was found that 10 mol% Fe in CeO2 exhibited the highest propene yield.
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
They showed that reforming pathways were more prevalent at higher CO2:C3H8 ratios, such as 2.5:1 and 5:1.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 and some Ga2O3 catalysts.
The number of studies on supported nanoparticle catalysts for ODH-CO2 are relatively few and those available indicate that this field of research has great potential.
The major challenge is in understanding and inhibiting side-reactions such as reforming, which are known to proceed over this class of catalyst, unlike in Cr- and Ga-based catalysts.
Careful consideration of the nanostructure and composition has shown that the selectivity can be readily tuned to favour different pathways, and further investigation in this area may well be able to harness the high activity of supported nanoparticles as well as favour dehydrogenation pathways.
Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental.
The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America.
The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale.
With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
The majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%).
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.
The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst.
The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. The crystallization temperature of the support directly affects the catalytic performance of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts by increasing Lewis acid sites and influencing the distribution of different surface V species. P modification can decrease the degree of VOx polymerization, enhancing catalyst stability and activity. Mg modification can improve catalytic performance and anti-coking capability by dispersing V2O5 crystallites and increasing active V3+ species. Gelation and calcination temperatures also impact the catalytic performance of VOx/SiO2 catalysts in terms of propane conversion, propene selectivity, and yield of propene. Dealuminated beta zeolites (Si-beta) are promising catalyst supports due to their high surface area and thermal stability, and the initial propane conversion linearly increases with the amount of acid sites. VOx/ZrO2 is more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2 due to the facile reduction of VO, VOV, and VOZr bonds, producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species. The balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is crucial for all dehydrogenation methods. The development of an active, selective, and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered a viable process in the future. Support modification strategies can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. Using supports with ordered mesoporosity and moderate surface acidity can aid mass transfer and avoid undesirable secondary reactions. Promoting elements can cause beneficial geometric and electronic effects on both the supports and active species. However, environmental and safety concerns exist in the preparation, usage, and disposal of certain catalysts due to their toxicity. Ga catalysts, while less active than Pt and Cr catalysts, have the advantage of being benign and inexpensive. The nature of the support is essential for vanadium-based catalysts, as the metalsupport interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance. The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond, and catalyst performance is affected by different supports.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
所有答案结果中的汇总中文答案 1
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
