 
Viral Legacy May Make Pregnancy Possible
Author(s): C. Wu
Source: Science News, Vol. 148, No. 10 (Sep. 2, 1995), p. 151
Published by: Society for Science & the Public
Stable URL: http://www.jstor.org/stable/3979356
Accessed: 27-06-2016 06:50 UTC
 
Your use of the JSTOR archive indicates your acceptance of the Terms & Conditions of Use, available at
http://about.jstor.org/terms
 
JSTOR is a not-for-profit service that helps scholars, researchers, and students discover, use, and build upon a wide range of content in a trusted
digital archive. We use information technology and tools to increase productivity and facilitate new forms of scholarship. For more information about
JSTOR, please contact support@jstor.org.
Society for Science & the Public is collaborating with JSTOR to digitize, preserve and extend access to
Science News
This content downloaded from 131.247.112.3 on Mon, 27 Jun 2016 06:50:21 UTC
All use subject to http://about.jstor.org/terms
 Dating the cosmos: Hubble eyes aging stars
 Everyone knows you can't be older
 than your mother. But over the past year,
 observations with the Hubble Space
 Telescope and several other instruments
 seem to have contradicted this cardinal
 rule. On the one hand, measurements of
 the speed at which the most distant
 galaxies are moving from Earth suggest
 that the universe may be no older than 8
 billion to 12 billion years (SN: 10/8/94,
 p.232). On the other hand, astronomers
 estimate the ages of our galaxy's oldest
 stars at 13 billion to 16 billion years.
 Now, new findings from Hubble may
 provide a step toward resolving this cos-
 mic conundrum.
 In viewing the globular cluster M4, the
 dense grouping of elderly stars nearest
 to Earth, Hubble has detected more than
 200 white dwarfs-the largest communi-
 ty of these old, shrunken stars ever iden-
 tified. Because they all reside at the same
 distance and were spawned from stars
 that formed at the same time, dwarfs in a
 cluster provide a unique opportunity to
 compare theoretical predictions with the
 actual evolution of these geriatric
 objects.
 In particular, notes Hubble investiga-
 tor Harvey B. Richer of the University
 of British Columbia in Vancouver, the
 dwarfs discovered in M4 should help
 fine-tune predictions about how rapidly
 these objects cool-a
 critical factor in
 attempts to infer the
 age of the universe
 from the temperature
 of white dwarfs. Richer
 and a team of U.S. and
 Canadian colleagues
 detail their work in the
 Sept. 20 ASTROPHYSICAL
 JOURNAL LETrERS.
 Formed by the grav-
 itational collapse of
 old, sun-like stars that
 have run out of nuclear
 fuel, white dwarfs represent the last and
 by far the longest phase in the life cycle
 of these stars. Dwarfs start out hot but
 gradually cool and fade in a highly pre-
 dictable manner. Indeed, a dwarf cools
 at such a predictable rate that its sur-
 face. temperature indicates its age. The
 coolest, dimmest dwarfs-those that
 have lived the longest-thus provide an
 estimate of the age of the cosmos, inde-
 pendent of such parameters as the
 expansion rate of the universe and the
 distance to far-off galaxies.
 Richer emphasizes that none of the M4
 dwarfs detected by Hubble are faint
 enough, or old enough, to serve as cosmic
 clocks. But, he adds, "we can use these
 dwarfs to refine our theories and make
 sure we understand in exquisite detail
 white dwarf cooling." Richer estimates
 that the oldest objects detected during
 Hubble's 30-hour survey have been white
 dwarfs for about 5 billion years.
 The team's ultimate goal-to detect a
 large group of white dwarfs old enough
 to date the universe-looms ahead.
 However, notes study coauthor Roger A.
 Bell of the University of Maryland in Col-
 lege Park, Hubble will have to detect
 dwarfs with one-fortieth the brightness
 of those seen in M4 in order to find the
 oldest stars.
 To pick out such faint stars, Richer
 recently proposed that Hubble take a
 much longer exposure-about 100
 hours-of a single region in another
 globular cluster, NGC 6752. This cluster,
 about 12,000 light-years from Earth, lies
 nearly twice as far away as M4. However,
 its position in the sky enables Hubble to
 stare at the cluster almost continuously
 as the telescope orbits Earth. In con-
 trast, Earth often blocks the telescope's
 view of M4.
 If administrators at the Space Tele-
 scope Science Institute in Baltimore
 approve the 100-hour survey, Hubble
 might make the observations a year from
 now, Richer says, perhaps yielding
 results by early 1997. -R. Cowen
 0 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
 m1 _z z
 t >
 0
 -0
 z
 a-
 Left: A view of the globular cluster M4
 taken with a ground-based telescope.
 The red box indicates one of three small
 areas probed by Hubble. Right: False-
 color view of one of the tiny regions of
 M4 seen by Hubble's wide-field and
 planetary camera. The image reveals
 seven white dwarfs (blue circles).
 Vilral legacy may make pregnancy possible
 Millions of years ago, a retrovirus
 infected our primate ancestors, leav-
 ing a legacy of its DNA in their genes.
 That DNA has been passed down to
 humans. A study now finds that the
 protein encoded by this DNA abounds
 in placental cells-suggesting that the
 protein may play a useful role today by
 helping prevent a pregnant woman's
 immune system from rejecting her
 fetus.
 Up to 0.5 percent of the DNA in the
 human genome may derive from
 ancient retroviruses, says Mark Boyd
 of Hahneman University in Philadel-
 phia, but most of this retroviral DNA
 produces no useful proteins.
 However, at least 0.1 percent of the
 protein in the layer of placental cells
 that separate the fetus from the moth-
 er comes from a known retroviral
 sequence designated ERV-3. Or so
 report Boyd and his colleagues at the
 Kennedy Institute of Rheumatology
 and Chester Beatty Laboratories, both
 in London, in the Aug. 20 VIROLOGY.
 That's a significant amount, notes
 Boyd, since elsewhere in the body, this
 protein "is barely detectable."
 A pregnant woman's body regards
 the fetus as an interloper in some ways,
 so its natural reaction is to reject it.
 One reason for this immune response
 lies in the structure of the placenta,
 Boyd says.
 In primates, the placenta looks "kind
 of like a tree stuck into the side of the
 maternal tissue" as opposed to a flat
 plate in other mammals. The large sur-
 face area of its branching network of
 blood vessels results in an unusually
 high degree of contact between the
 mother and this "foreign" tissue. "It
 really invades," Boyd says.
 In order for the mother's body to
 retain the placenta, something has to
 suppress her immune response to it.
 "There's no way ERV-3 is the only
 immunosuppressive thing in the pla-
 centa," Boyd says. But he adds that
 the ERV-3 protein's abundance in pla-
 cental cells suggests it's an important
 factor.
 Maurice Cohen of Abbott Labora-
 tories in North Chicago, Ill., helped
 determine the DNA sequence of
 ERV-3 in 1985, while he was at the
 National Cancer Institute in Freder-
 ick, Md. It resembled sequences in
 other retroviruses known to sup-
 press immunity, leading Cohen and
 his group to argue that it might per-
 form some immunosuppressive func-
 tion. But Boyd's group has "gone a
 step further and identified a protein."
 Boyd and his colleagues plan to test
 for the protein's suppression of immu-
 nity in two ways: first, by trying to
 block any suppression using antibod-
 ies to ERV-3, and then by turning on
 the ERV-3 DNA in cells that do not nor-
 mally suppress immunity.
 "Even if [ERV-3] isn't immunosup-
 pressive, the evidence that it's doing
 something useful is just impossible to
 ignore now," Boyd says. "I quite like
 the idea that the cell has hijacked the
 virus and not vice versa." -C. Wu
 SEPTEMBER 2,1995 SCIENCE NEWS, VOL.148 151
This content downloaded from 131.247.112.3 on Mon, 27 Jun 2016 06:50:21 UTC
All use subject to http://about.jstor.org/terms
