I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Stacking and structure of platinum on Cu (1 1 1) up to ve monolayers
Y.G. Shen *, D.J. O'Connor, R.J. MacDonald
Department of Physics, University of Newcastle, NSW 2308, Australia Abstract A quantitative investigation of the stacking and structure of ultrathin lms of Pt deposited on a Cu (1 1 1) surface has been carried out by a combination of real space low energy ion scattering (LEIS) and low energy electron diraction (LEED) techniques. At room temperature, Pt grew epitaxially on Cu (1 1 1) in the layer-by-layer mode. The Pt lms have the regular fcc stacking up to 5 Monolayers (ML) determined by measuring the incident angle dependence asso- ciated with shadowing eects. The thermal treatment of the Pt lms (from monolayer up to ve layers) triggered the Pt diusion and mixing with the Cu substrate to form a Cu3Pt (1 1 1)-like surface alloy over at least three atomic lay- ers. 1998 Elsevier Science B.V.
PACS: 61.18.Bn; 68.35.Bs; 68.55.Jk
Keywords: Alloys; Copper; Growth; Low energy ion scattering; Low index single crystal surfaces; Metallic lms; Platinum
1. Introduction
There have been numerous experiments on the growth of thin metal lms on single crystal metal substrates due to the great technological impor- tance as well as the fundamental interest. In order to obtain a detailed understanding of the physical and chemical properties of these lms, knowledge of the surface structure of thin lms is a prerequi- site. This allows one to look at systematic dier- ence between related systems, and also provides model systems against which theoretical calcula- tions can be tested.
Recently, the growth of Pt on Cu (1 1 1) has been investigated experimentally with a variety of surface-sensitive techniques by the two French groups [1,2]. These authors concluded from their data that the growth was layer-by-layer at room temperature. A surface alloy, presumably Cu3Pt,was evidenced by annealing at  600 K. In this ar- ticle, we present results of low energy ion scatter- ing (LEIS) and low energy electron diraction (LEED) studies of thin Pt lms on Cu (1 1 1) grown at 300 K and the formation of a Cu3Pt (1 1 1)-like phase by annealing. LEIS is a highly surface sensitive technique, which is particularly Nuclear Instruments and Methods in Physics Research B 135 (1998) 361365 * Corresponding author. Tel.: +61 49 217380; fax: +61 49 216907; e-mail: phsy@cc.newcastle.edu.au. 0168-583X/98/$19.00  1998 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII S 0 1 6 8 - 5 8 3 X ( 9 7 ) 0 0 5 1 8 - 1 well suited to investigating surface, interface and thin lm phenomena [35].
2. Experimental
Our angle resolved ion scattering system (VSW Scientic Instruments) and other standard tech- niques for surface preparation and characterisa- tion have been described previously [6]. The base pressure in the UHV chamber was  7  1011 mbar after bakeout, and rose to 4  1010 mbar during evaporation. The scattered ions were ener- gy analysed by a hemispherical electrostatic ana- lyser with multichannel detection.
The Cu (1 1 1) crystal was oriented within 0.5 and was cleaned following standard procedures [1]. The surface cleanliness and crystallographic ordering were veried by 1 keV He LEIS and
LEED. Platinum was sublimated via a home-built
evaporator source at a rate of  0:008 monolayers (ML) per second onto the substrate at room tem- perature. The monolayer completion was calibrat- ed with LEIS by measuring the lm signal as a function of Pt deposition time in conditions where no dissolution of Pt into the Cu (1 1 1) substrate takes place. The Pt was removed by Ar ion bom- bardment and annealing after each measurement.
3. Results and discussion
To investigate the growth behaviour of thin Pt lms on Cu (1 1 1) we measured the Pt signals as a function of the incident angle a along the two most important azimuthal directions at which dif- ferent shadowing features should occur depending on the coverage. Fig. 1(a) and (b) shows the a scans (measured from the plane of the surface) of the Pt signals along the [1 2 1] and [ 1 1 2] azi- muths respectively. The general feature for sub- monolayer coverage along the [1 2 1] and [ 1 1 2] azimuths is the same, resulting in an increase in the rst Pt shadowing peak ac  16 with in- creasing Pt coverages. This is due to the rst over- layer Pt shadowing of the rst overlayer Pt. At 1 ML, the rst Pt shadowing peak becomes pro- nounced. There are no extra Pt shadowing features appearing at higher incident angles at monolayer coverage, indicating the 2-D growth of the rst Pt overlayer. With increasing coverages, the signif- icant dierent shadowing features at higher inci- dent angles appear along the two azimuths.Along the [1 2 1] azimuth (Fig. 1(a)) the second and third shadowing edges (ac  31 and 74) ap- pear at Pt coverage of 1.6 ML and become pro- nounced at a coverage of 3.2 ML. Note that near the third shadowing peak at higher incident angles,scattering from second and third layers is domi- nant [7]. This observation is associated with the completion of  3 ML Pt and agrees with layer- by-layer growth up to a few layers [1,2]. In con- trast, along the [ 1 1 2] azimuth (Fig. 1(b)) a second critical angle of ac  54 appears at higher cover- ages. These features are consistent with the conclu- sion that the Pt lms have the regular ABCABC stacking of the fcc structure. The ABAB stacking of the hcp structure can be ex- cluded. In addition, the presence of the 3.2 ML Pt overlayers also results in the disappearance of the three Cu shadowing peaks in the Cu a scans (not shown), indicating that there are few Cu atoms in the top three layers. For 5 ML Pt, the a scan Fig. 1. Intensities of 1 keV Li ions scattered from the Pt atoms as a function of the incident angle a are shown for various cov- erages of deposited Pt at 300 K at H  130. (a) in the [1 2 1] azimuth and (b) in the [ 1 1 2] azimuth. 362
Y.G. Shen et al. / Nucl. Instr. and Meth. in Phys. Res. B 135 (1998) 361365
also shows fcc shadowing features. We conclude that Pt lms grow in a well-oriented fcc (1 1 1) structure upto at least 5 ML without any observ- able hcp stacking contributions. This conclusion has been conrmed by comparing the experimental shadowing features with those obtained by 3-D computer simulation in the a scans along both [1 2 1] and [ 1 1 2] azimuths (not shown).
The ordering and symmetry of thin Pt lms up to 5 ML have also been determined by both ob- serving the LEED pattern positions and by moni- toring the Pt signals obtained at grazing incidence.
The (1  1) LEED pattern was observed for room temperature Pt deposition independent of cover- age. For coverage up to  1 ML, a threefold sym- metry of the fcc structure remained unchanged,indicating a quasi-epitaxial growth. At 3 ML Pt,we detected  3% change of the position of the rst order beams (at xed energy), which is in agreement with the large mismatch ( 8:7%) of Cu and Pt lattices. At 5 ML Pt, the (1  1) LEED pattern shows slightly broader spots and higher background as compared to the clean Pt (1 1 1),revealing a Pt (1 1 1)-like structure (see the LEED patterns in Fig. 2).
Fig. 2(a) shows energy and angle dispersive LEIS distributions (raw data) of the azimuthal an- gle / scan at grazing incidence, collected from the 5 ML Pt lm surface. For comparison, the / scan from the clean Pt (1 1 1) surface under the same scattering geometrical conditions is shown in Fig. 2(b). The deep and wide minimum centred at /  0 indicates the shortest interatomic spacing between surface Pt atoms in the [0 1 1] azimuth.
The shallow and narrow minima at around /  )30 and 30 result from the next shortest in- teratomic spacings along the [1 2 1] and [ 1 1 2] az- imuths. The agreement between the lm and Pt (1 1 1) shadowing dips conrms a Pt (1 1 1)-like structure of the 5 ML Pt lm, in agreement with our LEED observations.
In order to determine the PtPt nearest-neigh- bour (NN) atomic spacing of the Pt layers, the crit- ical angles ac (measured at 80% of maximum intensity [6]) have been measured along both [1 2 1] and [ 1 1 2] azimuths during the growth of the rst ve layers. Using a ThomasFermiMo- liere (TFM) potential with screening length of
0.92aF for Li scattered from Pt [6], the NN values
obtained as a function of the Pt monolayers are shown in Fig. 3. The values are based upon mea- Fig. 2. Experimental LEIS energy and angle dispersive back- scattered intensity (also integrated Pt intensity with a linear background subtraction) distributions obtained from (a) the 5 ML Pt lm surface and (b) the Pt (1 1 1) surface with 1 keV Li ions at a  10 and H  110. LEED photographs of the 5 ML Pt lm and Pt (1 1 1) are also shown in the gure.
Fig. 3. The NN atomic spacing determined during the growth of the rst ve Pt layers on Cu (1 1 1) at 300 K.
Y.G. Shen et al. / Nucl. Instr. and Meth. in Phys. Res. B 135 (1998) 361365
363 surements made at ve dierent scattering angles between 90 and 130 and procedures described previously [6,7]. The quoted error indicates the rel- ative precision of the measurement. The analysis using the ZieglerBiersackLittmark (ZBL) poten- tial yields NN values within 10%, roughly indi- cating the uncertainty due to the scattering potential. During the growth of the rst monolay- er the lattice parameter, within an experimental uncertainty, basically equals to that of pure Cu (2.56 A). This result demonstrates the rst Pt lm is in a normal registry position. Beyond the mono- layer coverage, the lattice parameter increases sig- nicantly up to 2.73 A (close to the normal Pt NN value of 2.77 A) at 5 ML. These results are consis- tent with a previous determination by RHEED [2].
Fig. 4 shows the typical a scans along the [1 2 1] azimuth for deposition of 3.2 ML Pt on Cu (1 1 1) followed by annealing at 573 K. The a scans measured for the Cu3Pt (1 1 1) bulk alloy surface under the same scattering conditions are also shown in the gure as references. The id- entical shadowing features of the Pt and Cu signals compared to those of Cu3Pt (1 1 1) are observed,supporting the formation of a Cu3Pt-like phase at this temperature. A close inspection of scattered Pt and Cu signals near the third shadowing peaks (where scattering from second and third layers is dominant) in the a scans compared to those of Cu3Pt (1 1 1) strongly suggests that there are at least three layers of Cu3Pt. Repeated measure- ments involving several dierent Pt coverages be- tween 1 ML and 5 ML upon annealing showed that the surface alloy formed is always of Cu3Pt- type. Neither CuPt (1 1 1) nor CuPt3 (1 1 1) sur- face phase has been evidenced in this study.
The thermodynamical criterion based upon sur- face energies has been traditionally established for predicting the growth mode [8]. In most cases,however, thin lms are obtained under experimen- tal conditions far from thermodynamical equilibri- um. The lm growth and resulting morphologies will then be governed by kinetic eects. From a thermodynamical point of view, the large positive surface energy dierence between platinum and copper cPt  cCu > 0 should favour a 3-D cluster growth for Pt on Cu (1 1 1). However, this was not observed in this work and in previous studies [1,2].
It seems that the growth of metastable Pt overlay- ers on Cu (1 1 1) may be possible under some con- ditions due to kinetic limitations. In order to enable the layer-by-layer growth, interlayer mass transport must be fast enough to allow atoms to leave the tops of islands or clusters immediately af- ter they arrive. The strong tendency of the Pt over- layer towards an epitaxial-growth evidenced by LEED and LEIS reects its relatively strong Pt Cu interaction. We believe that the arriving hot'' Pt atoms at room temperature have su- ciently high mobility to obtain their quasi-equilib- rium 2-D conguration, while the true equilibrium conguration would correspond to an interdif- fused PtCu alloy. The experimental observation that an fcc stacking sequence is adopted implies strong PtPt interactions. This is in agreement with previous conclusions that Pt grows layer-by- layer at least up to several layers [1,2].Fig. 4. Intensities of 1 keV Li ions scattered from 3.2 ML Pt/ Cu (1 1 1) (annealed at  573 K for 10 min) and Cu3Pt (1 1 1) bulk alloy surfaces as a function of the incident angle a along the [1 2 1] azimuth at H  130. 364
Y.G. Shen et al. / Nucl. Instr. and Meth. in Phys. Res. B 135 (1998) 361365
By ion scattering it is found that the Pt NN val- ue (compressed by 7%) is close to that of pure Cu,indicating that the rst overlayer Pt atoms are in normal registry positions. With increasing cover- ages, the transition from the Cu bound distance to the equilibrium Pt bound distance occurs (not abrupt). At 5 ML, a Pt (1 1 1)-like structure is formed. This nding has been further conrmed by our LEED data. Our annealing results reveal that Pt lms on Cu (1 1 1) undergo intermixing with the substrate at moderate temperatures. Un- der appropriate annealing conditions  573 K,this leads to the formation of a stable surface alloy.
The results strongly suggest that the stoichiometry of the surface alloy formed is Cu3Pt. A compari- son of the Pt and Cu a scans between a surface al- loy and Cu3Pt (1 1 1) bulk alloy indicates that there are at least three layers of Cu3Pt. It should be mentioned that evidence for surface long-range ordering of the Cu3Pt (1 1 1) surface alloy was not observed during the whole course of the experi- ment. The reason for the absence of the predicted p(2  2) LEED pattern is not clear.
4. Conclusion
We have shown that the incident angle depen- dence associated with shadowing eects at special geometrical conditions using low energy alkali ion scattering can be used to monitor in detail the stacking sequence in the growth of fcc Pt on Cu (1 1 1) upto 5 ML. This technique with a com- bination of LEED provides unambiguous layer- by-layer monitoring of the stacking sequence,and can determine precisely the thickness of the growing lms, and the distances and orientations between surface NN atoms. We have also revealed that from monolayer to 5 ML coverage a Cu3Pt (1 1 1)-like surface alloy is formed upon annealing at 573 K.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How is the characterization of Ni/Pt bimetallic surfaces, synthesized by depositing a Ni monolayer on Pt(111) single crystal or polycrystalline Pt substrates, conducted, and why is this process crucial for structural modeling, DFT calculations, and our comprehensive understanding of the electronic and chemical properties of these bimetallic surfaces in the context of advanced surface science and catalysis research?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 