<quotes>
[1] "Because of their extensive use as chemical building blocks, light olefins, such as propylene (propene) and ethylene (ethene), are among the most important types of compounds in the chemical industry."
[2] "Light olefins are the feedstock employed in the production of a vast array of chemicals, including polymers (e.g., polyethylene and polypropylene), oxygenates (e.g., ethylene glycol, acetaldehyde, acetone, and propylene oxide), and important chemical intermediates (e.g., ethylbenzene and propionaldehyde)."
[3] "The demand of these building blocks has increased steadily over the last years, all major markets registering a positive growth in demand and production in recent years with the exception of the Eurozone, due to the effects of the recent economic downturn."
[4] "In 2007 less than 3% of propylene was produced by on-purpose techniques, while FCC and steam cracking accounted for the bulk of the propylene produced."
[5] "In recent years, hydraulic fracturing or fracking technologies have improved to the point where large volumes of shale gas can be extracted in a cost-effective manner."
[6] "This increased supply of natural gas has resulted in a drop in gas costs of about 75% relative to 2005 prices, making this shale gas very attractive both as an energy source and as feedstock for the production of transportation fuels or chemicals."
[7] "As shown in Table 1, in addition to methane, shale gas deposits contain considerable amounts of natural gas liquids (NGL), such as ethane and propane, which are easily separated from the natural gas."
[8] "Consequently, the recent boom in shale gas production has turned the United States into the lowest cost chemical producer outside the Middle East, as illustrated by the 126 investment projects totaling 84 billion dollars made up to September 2013 that have been tallied by the American Chemistry Council."
[9] "The high availability of these relatively cheap natural gas liquids, specifically ethane, has resulted in a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking installations in the United States, with ethane crackers being constructed and naphtha crackers being either dismantled or converted."
[10] "However, this number is expected to increase significantly in the upcoming years as dozens of new PDH installations have been announced worldwide, and many of these installations are already under construction."
[11] "Increased demand, especially from the automotive industry, combined with a decrease in supply due to the high cost of naphtha cracking, has resulted in sharp increases in butadiene prices."
[12] "This in turn has sparked investment in new butane dehydrogenation (BDH) installations in the United States, China, and Japan."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Light olefins, such as propylene and ethylene, play a crucial role in the chemical industry due to their extensive use as building blocks for various chemicals, including polymers, oxygenates, and intermediates. Their demand has been steadily increasing, with production and consumption showing positive growth in most markets except for the Eurozone due to economic downturn. Historically, most propylene was produced through FCC and steam cracking processes. However, advancements in hydraulic fracturing have made shale gas extraction cost-effective, leading to a significant drop in gas prices. This has enabled the United States to become a low-cost chemical producer, attracting investments totaling 84 billion dollars by September 2013. Shale gas contains natural gas liquids like ethane and propane, which are used as feedstock for chemical production, replacing naphtha in steam cracking installations. The demand for butane dehydrogenation installations has grown due to increased butadiene prices caused by supply shortages from high-cost naphtha cracking, leading to investments in new BDH facilities in the US, China, and Japan.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
轻烯烃，如丙烯和乙烯，在化工行业中起着至关重要的作用，因为它们被广泛用作聚合物、氧化剂和中间体等化学品的构建块。其需求一直在稳步增长，生产与消费在大多数市场中显示出积极的增长趋势，除了受经济衰退影响的欧元区。历史上，大部分丙烯是通过FCC和蒸汽裂解过程生产的。然而，水力压裂技术的进步使页岩气开采变得经济高效，导致天然气价格大幅下降。这使得美国成为低成本化工生产国，并吸引了总价值840亿美元的投资，截至2013年9月，这些投资项目共计126个。页岩气含有乙烷和丙烷等天然气液体，作为化工生产原料，取代了用于蒸汽裂解安装的石脑油。由于石脑油裂解成本高而导致的供应短缺，尤其是对汽车行业的增加需求，导致丁二烯价格上涨，促使美国、中国和日本投资新建丁烷脱氢装置。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
