Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. It exploits abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective raw material supply, and offers lower production costs, making it a competitive solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. It addresses conventional method challenges but faces issues due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that lead to coking and particle sintering, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It leverages abundant propane, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or catalyst activity risks, effectively addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, commercially available through Catofin and Oleflex, is a direct and economical solution for propylene production, addressing growing demand and petroleum resource depletion. It directly converts propane to propylene but faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under these conditions is crucial for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking. Its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly developments include ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh, for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene demand, but ethylene from ethane cracking disrupted this balance, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, meets large propylene demand, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient alternative to conventional methods, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, offers a promising solution to meet global propylene demand. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures a sufficient supply without depending on depleting petroleum resources, providing better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing feedstock availability and reducing reliance on costly naphtha. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with lower energy consumption and higher yields than multi-step processes. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH economically and environmentally superior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, efficiently addresses the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, requiring high temperatures for high propylene yields, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research on lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand, offering high selectivity to propylene and valuable hydrogen by-product, making it a sustainable, eco-friendly, and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a non-petroleum-based route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, developed for PDH, exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity up to 97%, with regeneration capability, demonstrating PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, avoiding noble metals. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after 6 hours, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts under industrial conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. Directly converting propane to propylene is an efficient method that boosts production. Compared to conventional methods, PDH provides superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the demand-supply gap caused by high energy consumption in traditional routes. The non-oxidative PDH process is more efficient and is an emerging technology in current use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and stable propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH ensures cost-effectiveness and sustainability, especially when propane is sourced from shale gas. This process efficiently utilizes resources and selectively activates CH bonds of light alkanes, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It serves as an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently meets growing propylene demand, unlike conventional methods that struggle with availability and efficiency. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its higher selectivity for propylene directly addresses the limitations of traditional processes, which produce a range of hydrocarbons. As a crucial chemical raw material, propylene's demand necessitates sustainable production methods, making PDH an attractive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive and CO2-emitting traditional methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability and reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as a promising solution, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH is considered the most promising pathway for high-value propylene production, due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further promote the conversion of low-valued propane, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas reserves, offers key advantages in propylene production: better feedstock availability, higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH reduces costs and enhances efficiency. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, overcoming challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved catalysts in this process.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, leverages the increased availability of propane from shale gas exploration, addressing conventional propylene production challenges. It utilizes abundant shale gas resources, highlighting its promise in meeting global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses the challenges of process efficiency and product selectivity faced by conventional methods, potentially providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle due to high fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a key solution. It tackles the challenges of conventional propylene production methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The need for new catalysts arises due to the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum in current ones. Cobalt-based catalysts, with their promising performance and the earth's abundant supply of cobalt, are seen as a viable long-term solution for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets growing global propylene demand by directly converting propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive processes. This enhances resource use and reduces environmental impact, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a key solution for propylene production, leveraging the growing availability of light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements, which challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, as evidenced by its increasing development in response to the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, addressing global demand and conventional method limitations. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The addition of Ni to zinc-based catalysts enhances PDH's catalytic activity and stability, further solidifying its advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. As a dedicated process, PDH focuses solely on propylene, avoiding unwanted hydrocarbons. Fracking's emergence has slashed propane feedstock costs for PDH. Moreover, PDH plants' adaptability and the growing propylene market's price dynamics make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, to address feedstock availability for propylene production. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 significantly boost process efficiency and product selectivity, yielding high propylene output with stability, making PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being energy-intensive, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results, enhancing propane conversion and reducing costs. PDH's use of abundant propane feedstock, high propylene yield, and low by-product formation address conventional method challenges. [3] \"Theoretically, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an atom-economic reaction, generating high value-added products.\" [5] \"PDH is a high energy-consuming process.\", yet suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It leverages shale gas, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges. PDH's thermodynamic properties and ability to utilize alkanes make it a promising solution to meet growing global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, offering higher propene selectivity for increased yields and reduced costs. By utilizing abundant propane from various sources, PDH ensures feedstock availability and is more environmentally friendly, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance CH bond activation, reducing CC cleavage for high propylene selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas for economic and steady feedstock. It offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and seamless integration with current technology. PDH's atmospheric pressure operation enhances efficiency and reduces energy consumption. Despite catalyst deactivation challenges, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring higher selectivity for propylene. The use of soft oxidants like CO2 is explored to improve the process, although activation challenges remain.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into various catalysts indicates efforts to further improve PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production, particularly through the Oleflex and Catofin processes. PDH leverages feedstock availability to address challenges of conventional methods. However, the high cost of the PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst in Oleflex and the toxicity of the Cr/Al2O3 catalyst in Catofin highlight the need for developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts to fully realize PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, directly produces propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy use. Its simplified process reduces costs, and focusing on propane conversion yields more propylene at potentially lower operating expenses, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, surpassing conventional naphtha or heavy oil methods. PDH boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, maximizing propane conversion to propylene with minimal by-products, directly addressing global demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its direct propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas condensates. PDH's selectivity for propylene over other products enhances efficiency, addressing conventional method limitations. With demand projected to grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's role in meeting this demand is critical, offering a more efficient and targeted production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a superior production method, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction has slashed gas costs by 75% since 2005, making it a prime feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability, which hinges on the price differential between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods, making it ideal for meeting demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. The urgent need for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst highlights PDH's aim to tackle environmental and economic challenges, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions, effectively addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity. Advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction have made propane abundant and cheaper, making PDH a promising method that addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, such as high energy consumption and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a cost-effective supply chain. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs, directly addressing the limitations of traditional methods by offering a single feed, single product process with a wide source of raw materials and reduced expenses.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand. Despite being an endothermic process with high-temperature challenges that can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH's use of nanostructured catalysts improves efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources by utilizing abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. PDH's direct conversion enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions, while avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, which enhances catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its economic and process efficiency in propylene production, offering a viable alternative as petroleum resources decline. As a commercially available method, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical route. However, the process requires high temperatures, leading to challenges like cracking and coke formation, which affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, and its importance in propylene production is increasing with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt deactivation, which is exacerbated by the use of environmentally harmful Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods, notably in feedstock availability and efficiency. The shift in ethylene and propylene production dynamics, due to abundant ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, has led to the recognition of PDH as an efficient process capable of fulfilling the high demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant shale gas, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular nature offers flexible capacity and lower costs, making it a non-oxidative, cost-effective alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for novel catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively meets growing propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources. This contrasts with conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle due to petroleum depletion, making PDH a promising solution for enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing feedstock availability and reducing reliance on costly naphtha. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene in a single step boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. The modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, resulting in lower operating costs and higher yields, making it a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its endothermic reaction and high-performance catalysts, efficiently meets the growing global demand for propylene. It achieves high yields, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability compared to conventional methods. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) uses boron-based catalysts, providing high selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 needs intrinsic activity boosts. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and hydrogen as a by-product, effectively addressing global demand and conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a non-petroleum based route for propylene production, addressing global demand and overcoming conventional method limitations. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate high dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability, achieving 97% propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in eco-friendly, cost-efficient catalysts. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH enhances performance, achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating its superiority in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, boasting environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional catalysts. A novel ZnO-based catalyst in PDH technology outperforms commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, which often suffer from energy-intensive processes. As an emerging non-oxidative route, PDH specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, ensuring stable feedstock. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially offering higher yields than fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha, thus addressing challenges in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using abundant propane instead of scarce naphtha and crude oil. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene than conventional methods. PDH's reliance on propane ensures better feedstock availability, addressing the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are high-energy-consuming and increase contaminants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking. It consumes less energy and emits fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency over conventional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to traditional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, making PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising method for production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, a key industrial component, faced a demand of around 116 million tons in 2020. PDH is favored for producing high-value propylene, considering cost and environmental impact. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have increased the availability of low-valued propane, further promoting its conversion to propylene through PDH, making it a cost-effective and environmentally sound choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves for feedstock. It offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs, and a more efficient process. The development of a selective and durable catalyst could further enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering key advantages over conventional methods: it ensures better feedstock availability, improves process efficiency, and enhances product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional approaches. This method also enables efficient CH bond activation and is environmentally friendly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, it addresses the issue of Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, which are limitations of widely used processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing global demand for propylene. It faces challenges with catalyst deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, effective during cyclic coke combustion, are crucial for improved process efficiency. PDH's leverage of shale gas highlights its advantage in feedstock availability for propylene production, making it a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising solution for increasing propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and limitations of conventional steam cracking methods. These catalysts offer onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH an attractive alternative. The development of new catalysts is crucial due to the high cost of platinum and chromium toxicity in current industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with feedstock availability and by-product management.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a leading solution. Conventional methods, hindered by toxicity and high costs, are outpaced by cobalt's earth abundance, offering long-term utility and enhancing PDH's position as a preferred propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steps, thus offering superior efficiency and lower environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, enhances feedstock availability and offers superior process efficiency and propylene selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities makes PDH a cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. It minimizes byproducts, offering a streamlined, cost-effective, and sustainable alternative to traditional oil-based methods, making it ideal for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages light alkanes, abundant due to shale gas and natural gas, to efficiently produce propylene. It overcomes high-temperature challenges, which cause cracking and coking, by employing the active site isolation strategy, enhancing selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective, non-toxic solution for propylene production, meeting global demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods. By incorporating moderate Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, PDH significantly enhances catalytic activity and stability, critical for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by specifically targeting propylene, avoiding the reliance on fossil fuels and high CO2 emissions. It benefits from cheap propane feedstocks due to fracking technology, and its adaptable factories enhance profitability, especially considering the growing propylene market and the price gap between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, and employs efficient catalysts like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity with high catalytic activity and stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, achieving near-ideal results through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited. Its high energy consumption is offset by increased propane conversion, reducing costs. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins (MTO), Fischer-Tropsch to olefins (FTO), and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) processes. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This technology specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the increasing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts due to milder operating conditions. This enhances efficiency and selectivity, particularly with Pt-based catalysts that activate paraffinic CH bonds for high propylene selectivity. Direct propane conversion to propylene at lower temperatures and pressures reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand with higher product selectivity and reduced byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with current technology. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which researchers are addressing by improving resistance to coke and protecting active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, offers advantages in stability and selectivity. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Ongoing research on catalysts, including indium-based and other materials, further improves PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a promising solution, leveraging the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits. It tackles conventional production challenges by improving feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt in Oleflex and the toxicity of Cr in Catofin highlight the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, crucial for PDH's development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas resources into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH enhances feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving superior propane conversion and propylene yield. This sustainable and cost-effective method directly targets propane to propylene conversion, minimizing by-products, and aligns with increasing propylene demand and shale gas exploitation, making PDH a preferred commercial production choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses the growing global demand by utilizing abundant shale gas condensates rich in propane, thanks to hydraulic fracturing (Quote 2). It boosts process efficiency and product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene (Quote 3), avoiding hybrid products. Regulating reaction conditions enhances propylene selectivity and productivity (Quote 4), making PDH critical for meeting the projected 2% to 3% annual growth in demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing (quote 2) has made shale gas extraction cost-effective (quote 3), reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price (quote 5), and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the price difference between propane and propylene (quote 6), making current market conditions favorable. A key advantage is PDH's ability to produce propylene exclusively (quote 7), with industrial processes optimized for polymer-quality purity (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity than conventional methods, thanks to the catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity. This highlights PDH's improved efficiency and selectivity, making it a green, cost-effective solution with high reactivity underlining its focus on environmental impact and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction ensures a plentiful and cost-effective propane supply. PDH avoids overoxidation, outperforming oxidative dehydrogenation in efficiency. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from other processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges, making it a promising method for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and addressing inefficiencies of conventional methods. Leveraging abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH provides a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to directly produce propylene, enhancing efficiency. It taps into abundant, cost-effective shale gas, ensuring a steady supply. PDH's lower costs and single-product focus make it a competitive choice, overcoming the limitations of traditional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Despite requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane to address decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propylene, minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical used in diverse products. It offers a direct and economical conversion of propane to propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely on depleting petroleum resources. PDH is commercially available and provides the shortest, most cost-effective route for propylene production. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the challenge of maintaining high propylene selectivity and catalyst stability in severe operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production. As new PDH plants emerge, its contribution to meeting global demand grows. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets high propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production amidst disrupted supply balances caused by shifts in ethylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering high efficiency with superior propane-to-propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for novel catalysts in the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures a sufficient propylene supply, making it a promising solution for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene in a single step with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and reducing dependence on expensive naphtha. This results in lower operating costs, higher yields, and lower energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods. It focuses on developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, a process requiring high temperatures for high yields. PDH's efficiency and selectivity, highlighted by its endothermic reaction, make it a promising solution to the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and minimizing overoxidation. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 catalysts require improved CO2 activity. Research priorities should include low-temperature CO2 activation to transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap and abundant propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the growing demand for propylene. It offers high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and cost-efficient choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative to petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing global demand. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative, is highlighted through Zn@S-1 catalysts, which exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability. This underscores PDH's advantages in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to the challenges of conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability of cost-efficient catalysts. It achieves about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for stable, cost-effective feedstock, directly converting propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods. This non-oxidative route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps, making it a leading solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by leveraging abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to naphtha. PDH processes enhance efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, particularly when utilizing shale gas resources, achieving higher yields and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a strategic solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, efficiently produces propylene with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and environmental impact. It improves product selectivity and reduces oil dependency, making it a sustainable choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting traditional naphtha cracking methods. It utilizes a catalyst that achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, notably reducing issues of coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources for enhanced feedstock availability in propylene production. Utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, PDH outperforms conventional methods with Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, ensuring process efficiency and product selectivity. This results in competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a superior production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. A significant demand gap in 2020 highlighted the need for improved production techniques. Compared to MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion from shale gas, bolstering PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for the increasing global need for propylene, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas for better feedstock availability. It directly produces propylene, improving efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH's key benefits include lower costs from shale gas use, a more direct production process, and the development of an advanced catalyst that enhances efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental performance. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, though common, have short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity issues, underscoring the need for PDH advancements.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process using shale gas, addresses propylene production challenges. It leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, offering a significant advantage. PDH requires high temperatures for propane conversion, with supported platinum-based catalysts prone to deactivation by coke, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas resources makes it promising for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and outstripping steam cracking capacity. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts offer onstream stability and high selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, highlighting PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These catalysts overcome limitations of high-cost platinum and toxic chromium-based alternatives, making PDH a viable route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting rising global propylene demand due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, distinguishing it from conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH's efficiency and selectivity in propylene production offer a solution to the challenges of feedstock availability and by-product management faced by traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a solution to conventional production challenges. PDH addresses limitations like Cr toxicity and Pt cost, offering a viable alternative with Co's earth abundance ensuring long-term utility in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steam or fluid catalytic cracking. This method optimizes resource use and reduces environmental impact, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it advantageous for meeting growing global demand. It also allows for easy retrofitting of existing facilities, directly addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and higher yields while minimizing byproducts and energy use, making it a sustainable and economically viable alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas, enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy consumption and reaction temperatures that can cause cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing industry challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, is pivotal for meeting the global propylene demand. It excels in high conversion rates and selectivity to propene, offering lower costs and nontoxicity through zinc-based catalysts. The addition of moderate Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances catalytic activity and stability, addressing conventional production limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high efficiency and selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that heavily rely on fossil fuels and have lower propylene yields. PDH, as an on-purpose process, specifically targets propylene production. It benefits from the low cost of propane, abundant in shale gas, making it economically advantageous. PDH plants' adaptability further enhances profitability, especially considering the price gap between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. The use of a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 significantly boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of research and commercial application, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized catalysts and conditions enable near-ideal results. PDH's high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane, addresses limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, despite being energy-intensive.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to meet the growing global demand for olefins, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. Compared to conventional SC and FCC methods, PDH surpasses in process efficiency and addresses challenges in feedstock availability. Its high selectivity, especially in the context of propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene, underscores the importance of efficient catalysts for high olefin selectivity. This makes PDH a superior method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, thus addressing global propylene demand sustainably and cost-effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene yields at milder conditions than steam cracking, minimizing byproducts. Its Pt-based catalysts ensure high selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low CC cleavage activity. This process is more efficient and selective, operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, as per quote [6]. Propane, abundant from natural gas and shale gas production, serves as a steady feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, unlike complex and costly conventional methods. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, but efforts improve resistance to coke and protect active sites, as noted in quote [3]. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane, which addresses challenges in feedstock availability. PDH offers advantages in stability and selectivity, making it a promising method over conventional production. Ongoing research into catalysts indicates efforts to further enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, emerges as a solution, addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the development of cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts remains a critical PDH advancement hurdle.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a feedstock, offers key advantages over conventional propylene production methods. It addresses feedstock availability by using abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, thanks to its single-reactor design that simplifies the process and reduces costs. This targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective alternative, particularly in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for converting abundant low-value propane into high-value propylene, tackling feedstock availability. PDH boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, especially in regions with abundant propane feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2-3% annual growth in global propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, directly producing propylene without by-products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible, addressing conventional production challenges. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity and productivity, making it a promising method to meet the projected demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, hiking prices and bolstering PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently advantageous. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-grade purity, addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability challenges. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. The focus on developing a green, low-cost PDH catalyst underscores efforts to mitigate environmental impact and enhance product selectivity, distinguishing PDH as a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, avoiding overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrates good regeneration stability in recycling reactions, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and addressing inefficiencies of conventional methods. Leveraging abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrates, PDH provides a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly converting propane to propylene, utilizing abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources for a steady, cost-effective supply. Its single-feed, single-product process ensures high efficiency and lower costs compared to conventional methods, making it a competitive choice in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene. Despite being an endothermic process that requires high temperatures, leading to potential coking and particle sintering, PDH offers high propylene yields. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant, low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in propylene production. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical solution for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and depletion of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH offers a shorter, cost-effective route. However, its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions that affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing high-efficiency catalysts is crucial for industrial production, ensuring selectivity and stability under severe conditions.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, and its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. Issues with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts include health concerns and high costs, with Pt sintering and Cl2 usage posing environmental issues. Recent eco-friendly developments include ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NP, for efficient dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency in meeting global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an emerging method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods with high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, capitalizing on abundant propane supply and the significant price gap between propane and propylene. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, by ensuring sufficient propylene output without reliance on oil.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, converting propane directly to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy use. The modular plant design enables flexible, localized production, reducing dependence on expensive naphtha and addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, featuring high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, is a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, which are limitations of conventional production methods. The use of advanced catalysts is crucial for achieving high yields of propene, highlighting PDH's role in addressing the increasing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges by using renewable green propane and avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, utilizing boron, is promising but must limit overoxidation to improve propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally beneficial, requires enhanced CO2 activity for commercial viability. Future catalyst design should focus on abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to advance green propane-based propylene production, ensuring high selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand gap. It offers high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and cost-efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering a non-petroleum-based alternative. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, like Zn@S-1, are emerging as promising alternatives to scarce platinum and toxic chromium, demonstrating good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable industrial route.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology boasts high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, making it an efficient and environmentally friendly solution for propylene production. Notably, catalysts without non-noble metals achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating PDH's superiority in addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a vital alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses global propylene demand by offering environmental benefits through the avoidance of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity by three times, maintaining similar selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It directly transforms propane to propylene efficiently, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, thus narrowing the demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods. It efficiently converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially with shale gas resources. PDH selectively activates CH bonds of light alkanes, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers improved process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative to feedstock-dependent and less efficient traditional methods, effectively addressing challenges to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock to enhance efficiency and reduce CO2/NOx emissions. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha/crude oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity and lower energy consumption, making it a more sustainable choice for meeting the growing demand for propylene in diverse downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a promoted catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability and reduces reliance on oil-based sources. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, thanks to superior vanadium oxide catalysts that offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These advancements make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and low-toxicity solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. In 2020, propylene demand hit 116 million tons. Among methods like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages, making it the optimal pathway for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane supply from shale gas, enhancing its conversion and utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for direct production. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods with better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more efficient, selective process. Advanced catalyst development further enhances PDH's efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of traditional naphtha and heavy oil cracking.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing global demand and conventional method limitations. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, efficiently activating CH bonds with longer reactive longevity. Environmentally friendly, PDH uses Pt-based catalysts to enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, offering improvements in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity over conventional methods. Despite Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity issues, PDH remains a promising solution for enhanced propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources to meet growing global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and product selectivity. Despite challenges from coke deposition, which necessitates frequent catalyst regenerations, the development of stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts enhances process efficiency. PDH's effective use of shale gas highlights its superiority in addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, presents a more direct and efficient method for propene production, especially where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. These catalysts ensure good stability and high selectivity, making PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle with dwindling fossil energy resources, making PDH a compelling solution to meet escalating demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, offering long-term viability due to the abundance of cobalt, making it a favorable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steps. This method optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane as feedstock, sourced from various petrochemical processes, and its ability to retrofit existing facilities, avoiding high investment. It specifically tackles conventional production challenges by offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a leading solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, ensures efficient and selective propylene production, stabilizing supply, cutting energy use, and curtailing byproducts, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant light alkanes from shale gas, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing industry challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and nontoxic solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing zinc-based catalysts for enhanced activity and stability. It leverages abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions, thus overcoming challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. As an on-purpose process, PDH specifically targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon products. Fracking's advent has made propane feedstocks cost-effective for PDH. PDH's adaptability and the favorable price differential between propylene and propane, coupled with growing market demand, make it highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, addresses feedstock availability issues for propylene production. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic, endothermic reaction, optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieves ideal results. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by increasing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and new catalyst exploration, ensuring relevance to engineering practice. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand for olefins. It serves as an effective supplement to conventional methods, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. PDH offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, distinguishing it from alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity, combined with its role in utilizing shale gas, makes PDH advantageous in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures high selectivity towards olefins, making it a key technology for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields, making it an attractive solution to meet global propylene demand and overcome limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from sources like shale gas, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, operating at milder conditions than conventional steam cracking. Its efficiency and selectivity, enhanced by effective catalysts, directly convert propane to propylene, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Propane, sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a steady and economical feedstock. Commercial PDH processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR operate under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH remains a favorable method due to its operational simplicity and economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research on catalysts, including materials like Ga, Zn, Co, Fe, V, Zr, and nanocarbon, indicates efforts to further improve PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, offers enhanced feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt in Oleflex and Cr toxicity in Catofin's catalysts limit PDH's potential, emphasizing the need for more cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more abundant and stable feedstock, propane, compared to conventional methods using naphtha and heavy oil fractions. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. PDH's single-reactor design enhances efficiency and sustainability, making it cost-effective for meeting global propylene demand, especially in propane-rich regions. Its targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, outperforming traditional methods in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas. This direct conversion process is highly efficient and selective, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, making PDH a promising alternative that meets growing propylene demand while addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective, as it allows massive extraction of shale gas condensates rich in propane. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without hybrid products, enhances selectivity. Regulating reaction conditions further boosts propylene yield, inhibiting side reactions and improving productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling feedstock scarcity, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas for chemical production over naphtha. This shift to ethane has reduced propylene supply, hiking its price and bolstering PDH's profitability, which hinges on the propane-propylene price gap. PDH's on-purpose technique exclusively yields propylene, not a mixed product slate, and processes are optimized for polymer-grade purity, addressing the challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using CoSiBeta catalysts, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. It outperforms conventional CrOx and Pt catalysts in process efficiency and product selectivity, while also being more environmentally friendly and cost-effective. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst highlights its role in overcoming traditional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas to ensure feedstock availability. It curbs overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation methods. PDH's high propylene selectivity, as highlighted in Figure 1c, sets it apart from MTO and FTO processes, ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance anti-coke stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. PDH's enhanced performance suggests broader applicability in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity. The technology leverages the abundance and lower cost of propane, made possible by advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, to address limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout in propylene production, offering efficiency and cost-effectiveness by using propane as a single feedstock. The shift to unconventional gas sources, like shale gas, ensures a steady and affordable supply of raw materials, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH's advantages, including single feed and product, wide raw material sources, and low cost, make it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering high yields. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by affecting propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. It avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by directly converting propane to propene, utilizing an abundant and cheaper feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading alternative for propylene production, addressing the global demand for this crucial petrochemical. As a commercially viable method, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering economic and process efficiency. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods by providing a shorter and more economical route. However, the process is endothermic, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its environmental advantages and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its role is expanding with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have health risks and cost issues. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted and supported by Ru or Rh, exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency in meeting global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production amidst the disrupted balance of ethylene and propylene production due to natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance activity and selectivity, making PDH a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. As petroleum resources dwindle, PDH ensures a sufficient propylene supply, making it a viable solution for growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing feedstock availability and reducing reliance on costly naphtha. Its process efficiency and selectivity are superior, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimized byproducts and energy use. Modular plant design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. Compared to steam cracking, PDH offers lower operating costs, higher propylene yields, and greater sustainability, making it a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-performance catalysts, efficiently meets growing global propylene demand by overcoming conventional method limitations. Its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts enable endothermic propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, crucial for high yields, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, excels with high spacetime yield, addressing conventional production challenges by leveraging renewable green propane. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise without coke formation issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, requires activity enhancement. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and CO2 activation, with an emphasis on abundant elements. Research on lower energy propene production from green propane could revolutionize its manufacturing, aligning with green chemistry principles and sustainability goals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap and abundant propane from shale gas, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing the propylene supply-demand gap. Its eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative to petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing global demand. Zinc, an abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr. Zn-based catalysts, like Zn-4@S-1, demonstrate high efficiency and regeneration capability, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, highlighting PDH's potential in overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a solution to the growing demand for propylene by achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability in propene production. A key challenge is the development of cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. The encapsulation of nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, grown in situ from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support, addresses this challenge. This design ensures the size control of ZnO nanoparticles and their stability at high temperatures. The catalysts demonstrate high performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours on stream, illustrating PDH's advantages over conventional methods in terms of efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, boasting environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. ZnO-based catalysts significantly enhance PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective feedstock supply, directly converting propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods. This non-oxidative route offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the challenges of high energy consumption and demand-supply gaps in traditional production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and stable propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, including shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by offering an alternative production route with potential for higher efficiency and selectivity, independent of specific feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It uses abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability compared to oil-based feedstocks. PDH is more energy-efficient and eco-friendly, emitting less CO2 and NOx. With higher selectivity for propylene, PDH directly converts propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with energy-intensive and CO2-emitting conventional methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, thus meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability and reduces dependence on oil-based feedstocks. It offers superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. These advancements contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, necessitates efficient production methods. In 2020, demand reached about 116 million tons, highlighting the need for advancements. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional techniques, PDH is cost-effective and environmentally beneficial, making it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, reinforcing PDH's pivotal role in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out by utilizing abundant shale gas, offering enhanced feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. Its more direct process improves efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods, further boosted by the development of a superior PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, notably improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Its CH bond activation ensures longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Particularly, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene, offering improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, indicating areas for technological advancement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers advantages in feedstock utilization and process efficiency for propylene production. Despite challenges with catalyst stability, PDH's benefits make it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene, offering a more direct and efficient production route from propane. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH processes demonstrate good stability and high selectivity, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant propane feedstock and reduced by-product generation, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with increasing fossil energy consumption. PDH's superior efficiency and selectivity make it a leading alternative, tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a superior alternative, tackling the issues of chromium toxicity and high platinum costs in traditional methods. PDH's use of cobalt-based catalysts, abundant in nature, ensures long-term sustainability and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering greater resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing conventional method challenges amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene conversion with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable and economically viable method ensures stable, higher-yield propylene production with lower energy consumption, addressing global demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas, addresses propylene production challenges. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy mitigates issues like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. This makes PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand, as it effectively tackles conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propylene production, offering enhanced catalytic activity and stability. It specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, making it pivotal for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely on fossil fuels and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. The innovation of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 significantly enhances catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thereby improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of research and commercial application, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its atom-economic reaction ensures high yield and minimal waste, approaching the ideal state with optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Despite high energy consumption, PDH increases propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, and minimizing by-product formation, tackling limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, effectively supplementing traditional methods to meet escalating global demand for olefins. It leverages the abundant alkanes in shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a viable alternative that specifically tackles issues of feedstock and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, boasting higher propene selectivity than conventional methods. By utilizing abundant propane feedstocks from diverse sources, it tackles feedstock availability issues. PDH's direct process yields higher production efficiency and lower costs, making it an attractive option for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts offer high propylene selectivity, minimizing unwanted formation. PDH improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, directly converting propane to propylene with higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and ease of integration with current technology. Propane, a key feedstock for PDH, is abundant and economical, thanks to the surge in natural gas production. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates efficiently at atmospheric pressure. PtSn-based catalysts, though effective, face challenges with deactivation and stability. PDH avoids issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, such as deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global demand for propylene and low propane costs from shale gas. PDH technologies are optimized with indium-based catalysts for high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional production limitations. Ongoing research explores catalysts including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, enhancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative to conventional propylene production methods. PDH, encompassing Oleflex and Catofin processes, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of current PDH catalysts underscore the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a feedstock advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher propylene selectivity, and can be executed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, especially in regions with abundant propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant low-value propane into high-value propylene, offers greater feedstock flexibility compared to conventional methods using naphtha or heavier oil. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method better meets the global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. PDH leverages the abundance of propane from shale gas condensates, ensuring cheaper and plentiful feedstock. This technology's selectivity for propylene enhances efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's development is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights the advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemical production. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating a favorable market for PDH. This on-purpose technology yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products. The current price gap between propane and propylene enhances PDH's profitability, making it a promising solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, notably in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Efforts to design a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene highlight PDH's potential to overcome conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently inhibiting overoxidation to boost process efficiency, and offering high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. This makes PDH a superior method for meeting the global demand for propylene, outshining conventional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient route for meeting global propylene demand. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in gas extraction, highlight PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and yielding propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant raw materials from unconventional gas sources like shale, ensuring cost-effectiveness and addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting global propylene demand. Its advantages, including a single feed and product, wide raw material sources, and low cost, make PDH a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, offering high activity and yields. It operates at high temperatures, which can cause coking and particle sintering, but nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources by utilizing widely available propane, improving feedstock availability. PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst activity and stability. Its direct conversion of propane to propene improves process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading, economical method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. It addresses challenges by offering an alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with dwindling petroleum resources. PDH's commercial availability and process efficiency make it the shortest route for production. However, high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH, particularly in improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods. Its importance grows with new plant constructions. Conventional catalysts, however, pose health and cost concerns due to Cr(VI) toxicity and Pt sintering. Recent advancements feature eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NP, demonstrating high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. Unlike conventional methods, PDH optimizes feedstock use and process efficiency, making it a critical on-purpose solution, especially in the disrupted balance caused by ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It outperforms conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, improving efficiency and selectivity while reducing byproducts and energy consumption. PDH's modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs. Its high yields, lower operating costs, and environmental benefits make it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by effectively addressing global demand. Its key advantage lies in the development of high-performance catalysts that ensure activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for the endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures for optimal yields. This makes PDH a promising alternative, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing active catalysts like Pt or Cr, offers high spacetime yield for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages renewable green propane, emerging as a sustainable alternative. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) shows promise with boron-based catalysts, despite overoxidation risks. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, focusing on CO2 activation at lower temperatures. Research and development of lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product, effectively addressing global demand and conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, addresses growing global propylene demand by offering an efficient alternative to conventional methods. The development of Zn@S-1 as an alternative catalyst is significant due to platinum scarcity and chromium toxicity. Zn@S-1 exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, making it a promising option for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By using catalysts with nanoparticles encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves high activity, selectivity, and stability. This is evidenced by a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, showcasing PDH's superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic substances. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as evidenced by benchmark testing under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, ensures a stable and cost-effective propane supply. This direct conversion process is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, addressing their limitations. PDH's non-oxidative route is an emerging, efficient technology in current use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane, abundant from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, to produce propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. By converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH optimizes shale gas resources, achieving higher yields and selectivity. This addresses the challenges of meeting escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to steam cracking and FCC. It reduces dependency on specific feedstocks, improves efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher propylene selectivity. Unlike traditional methods using scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it ideal for meeting growing demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior, eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive, CO2-emitting traditional methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively addressing common issues like coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses feedstock availability challenges for propylene production. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity through the use of vanadium oxide catalysts, offering better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These catalysts contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a viable solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising solution, offering cost-effective and environmentally sound production of high-value propylene. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH optimally utilizes abundant shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for direct production, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It ensures better feedstock availability, higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. Developing a high-performance catalyst for PDH is critical, enhancing its efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable alternative to traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. Its ability to efficiently activate CH bonds, sustain longer reactive periods, and provide environmental benefits makes it advantageous. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand by overcoming catalyst limitations, enhancing feedstock efficiency, and improving product selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, utilizes supported platinum-based catalysts. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency. PDH's renewed interest, driven by increased propane supply from shale gas exploration, highlights its role in utilizing abundant resources for propylene production, addressing feedstock availability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propylene production from propane, addressing the growing global demand. These catalysts provide good stability and high selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. PDH specifically tackles the issue of increasing propylene demand beyond the capacity of steam cracking processes, making it a crucial development in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, which addresses the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, especially in the context of fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas-derived propane, PDH technology stands out as a sustainable and efficient solution. Conventional methods, hindered by toxicity and high costs, are outshone by PDH's use of cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance. This makes PDH a promising choice for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive processes. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging cost-effective propane and butane, easily integrating into existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively tackling the limitations of conventional methods amid rising global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply, lower energy use, and higher yields than steam cracking. Its selectivity minimizes byproducts, making production streamlined, sustainable, and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to abundant light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's challenges are mitigated by the effective active site isolation strategy, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. This strategy curbs the production of undesired C1 and C2 molecules and coke, making PDH a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness, nontoxicity, and improved catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by utilizing cheap propane-rich shale gas, made possible by fracking. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing efficiency. The technology's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propylene and propane, alongside growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a critical advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH achieves high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, significantly enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can approach ideal outcomes. Despite high energy consumption, strategies like temperature adjustment and pressure control can increase propane conversion in a single pass, reducing costs. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions, crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane ensures feedstock availability and high conversion rates, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature provide efficiency benefits, making it a superior choice for meeting the increasing need for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable solution for propylene production, boasting higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases to produce propylene under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. This direct conversion process operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a more efficient and selective method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with current technology. Propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the shale gas boom, is the primary input. PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts but face challenges with deactivation and stability. Despite these, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the escalating global demand for propylene and the affordability of shale gas-derived propane. Indium-based catalysts, highlighted in ongoing research, promise enhanced stability and selectivity, addressing conventional production challenges. Efforts to optimize PDH technology through various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aim for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for propylene production. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, notably the high cost of Pt metal and toxicity of Cr catalysts, by offering a potentially more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternative. Developing such catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil. Its targeted conversion process directly from propane to propylene results in high efficiency and superior product selectivity, minimizing by-product formation and meeting growing demand while maximizing economic benefits, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, excels in meeting global demand by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock is accessible. PDH exclusively produces propylene, boosting selectivity, and regulating reaction conditions inhibits side reactions, enhancing productivity. With growing propylene demand, PDH's efficiency is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights the advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH benefits from the price differential between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, making it a prime solution in the current market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. It excels in catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. The urgent need for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity highlights PDH's role in overcoming conventional production challenges, aligning with the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, boosts propylene production by inhibiting overoxidation for greater efficiency and offering superior selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, thanks to the active Co species and surface acid property that enhance anti-coke stability. This addresses product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. PDH also shows promise for feedstock availability, though specific advantages over conventional methods are not detailed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers an efficient solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, unlike traditional methods that struggle with naphtha and coal cracking to meet demand. PDH's advantages, including lower costs and wide raw material availability, make it a competitive choice in the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources by utilizing abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability. PDH boosts efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, is a promising and economical route for propylene production, crucial for various products including plastics. It addresses the growing demand and depletion of petroleum resources by directly converting propane to propylene. However, the process faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency over oil-based methods by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. New PDH plants are being built, enhancing its role in meeting global demand. Conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt species have health risks and deactivation issues. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering superior product selectivity and addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The shift in ethylene production methods has disrupted the propylene supply balance, making on-purpose methods like PDH essential. PDH specifically tackles these issues, emerging as an efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, offering high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It excels with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Modular implementation ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Unlike traditional processes that struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing efficiency and selectivity through direct conversion with minimal byproducts. This results in lower energy use and higher yields, making PDH economically and environmentally favorable. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels by developing high-performance catalysts for enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity. This advancement is pivotal, given the endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, thus outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and avoids coke formation, addressing conventional production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. With green propane, PDH can transform propylene manufacturing sustainably, aligning with green chemistry principles and offering a viable solution to the propene gap.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing the global demand-supply gap. Its eco-friendly and cost-efficient nature makes it a preferred alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative to petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing global demand. Zinc catalysts, like Zn@S-1, exhibit high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, making them promising for overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high catalyst activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer enhances catalyst performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating PDH's effectiveness in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It avoids toxic and ecologically harmful substances, showcasing environmental benefits. A ZnO-based catalyst for PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, under industrial conditions, highlighting PDH's efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for stable, cost-effective propylene production. Its direct propane conversion is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route makes it a leading technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundant and stable propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, to produce propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity. Utilizing propane from shale gas sources makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective, offering higher yields and selectivity for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to feedstock-dependent methods like steam cracking and FCC. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a sustainable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. Unlike conventional methods, PDH is less oil-dependent, more energy-efficient, and has lower CO2 and NOx emissions. Its high product selectivity for propylene directly addresses the limitations of traditional production processes, making it a promising and environmentally friendly method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. By employing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably minimizing coke formation and sintering, common catalyst deactivation issues in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, enhances feedstock availability and reduces oil dependency. It features superior vanadium oxide catalysts, offering better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity. These advancements lead to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand surge, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology stands out as the most promising solution. It excels in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering economic and environmental benefits for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered propane conversion, leveraging abundant shale gas to enhance the utilization of this low-valued feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity over traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene, potentially lowering costs, and a more efficient process. Developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst could further enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering improved feedstock availability, enhanced process efficiency, and superior product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Its key advantages include efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, yet Pt-based catalysts, central to PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, underscoring persistent challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers enhanced product selectivity and process efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Its focus on stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, resistant to deactivation, underscores its commitment to efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas for propylene production provides a competitive advantage over traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it an efficient alternative for propene production, particularly where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. This development addresses the high cost and toxicity issues of conventional catalysts, providing a direct route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation. Conventional methods, consuming fossil energy, struggle to meet demands. PDH's efficiency and selectivity offer a promising solution, making it a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology, exemplified by Catofin and Oleflex, emerges as a promising solution. Challenges with Cr toxicity and Pt costs in other methods are mitigated by PDH, which benefits from cobalt-based catalysts. Cobalt's earth-abundant nature ensures PDH's long-term utility, making it a viable option to meet propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive cracking, offering better resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane and butane as feedstocks, easily retrofitting existing facilities without major investment. It specifically tackles conventional methods' issues by offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to abundant light alkanes, addresses conventional methods' limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures, which challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propylene production, addressing global demand. It excels in high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high selectivity for propylene, unlike conventional methods which have lower selectivity and higher CO2 emissions. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability, especially considering the price differential between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing feedstock availability for propylene production. It boasts superior process efficiency and product selectivity, as exemplified by a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, which exhibits high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, overcoming the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the process. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures can boost conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene. PDH's use of abundant propane feedstock and its ability to approach ideal conversion states make it a promising solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, complementing traditional methods and addressing growing global demand for olefins. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, makes it advantageous. PDH utilizes shale gas, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. The technology's thermodynamically limited and endothermic nature offers process benefits, while the activation of CH bonds over CC bonds ensures high selectivity to olefins, crucial for efficient olefin production. The stability of propylene relative to ethylene necessitates the use of appropriate catalysts for high selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and lower costs than conventional methods. It directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as feedstock, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts improve propylene selectivity by activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, while lower temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology, making it a promising method for propylene production. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use PtSn-based catalysts, which are efficient but face challenges with deactivation and stability. Efforts are being made to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation, addressing key issues for PDH's full potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are gaining prominence due to their potential to enhance stability and selectivity in propylene production, particularly through the use of indium-based catalysts. The growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas have renewed interest in PDH. Despite challenges, ongoing efforts to refine PDH methods highlight its potential in meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane in shale-gas, catalytic PDH processes like Oleflex and Catofin are emerging as solutions to conventional production challenges. These methods improve feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of their catalysts limit PDH's potential, emphasizing the need for more sustainable alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, using abundant propane as a feedstock. It directly converts propane to propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process in a single reactor. This efficiency and selectivity, coupled with its energy-efficient design, make PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand, especially in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for converting abundant shale gas propane into propylene, offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. PDH directly transforms propane into propylene with high conversion rates, making it a sustainable, cost-effective choice, especially in shale-rich areas. Its targeted production process minimizes environmental impact and maximizes economic benefits, positioning PDH as the most promising solution for increasing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual rise in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology stands out for its exclusive propylene production, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts feedstock availability, making propane-rich shale gas condensates plentiful and cost-effective. PDH's ability to produce only propylene, not hybrid products, and its improved selectivity and productivity make it a key solution for meeting future demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology offers a solution, leveraging enhanced hydraulic fracturing for cost-effective shale gas extraction. This has lowered gas costs and favored shale gas as a feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the propane-propylene price difference, and its on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, not a mixture. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins, making PDH a market-favored choice.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, tackling feedstock availability issues. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and environmentally impactful, PDH's green and cost-effective approach addresses product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging cheap, abundant propane from shale gas for feedstock availability. It boosts process efficiency by preventing overoxidation and ensures high propylene selectivity, surpassing MTO and FTO processes in product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, optimizing feedstock use and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges. Enhanced by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is cost-effective and efficient, making it a promising route to meet rising propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    