Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This enhances efficiency and addresses the limitations of traditional methods that struggle to meet growing demand. PDH benefits from abundant and affordable light alkanes sourced from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady supply. Its lower production costs make PDH a competitive choice, outperforming conventional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Its high activity and yields are advantageous, but the endothermic process requiring high temperatures leads to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, improve efficiency and selectivity, overcoming these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by economically converting low-cost propane to value-added propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation. This method utilizes propane, an important chemical raw material, enhancing feedstock availability and bypassing intermediate steps to reduce undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods that are increasingly constrained by dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available process, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the shortest and most cost-effective route. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH leads to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology to enhance catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts that, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges posed by the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production due to the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas cracking. PDH is recognized as the most efficient process to meet the high demand for propylene, making it a viable solution for feedstock availability and process efficiency issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It's considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking. The literature highlights the need for novel catalysts, with vanadium-based options showing promise for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. This addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without reliance on dwindling oil, making it a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and scarce naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's abundant feedstock, high yields, and lower energy consumption make it a sustainable and cost-effective choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene due to its high activity, stability, and selectivity in catalysts, which are essential for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction requiring high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally beneficial, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy routes to propene via green propane dehydrogenation could transform the manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing the supply-demand gap by converting abundant, cheap propane from shale gas into propylene with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process offers an attractive alternative to conventional methods, utilizing widely available feedstock and achieving high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, developed due to the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts, exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability. At 853 K, it achieves a propylene selectivity of 97%, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes. Zinc, as an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative for PDH catalysts, offering an environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's environmental compatibility, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as a stable and cheap feedstock source. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, offering process and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's independence from specific feedstocks and higher efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering higher efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, as propane can be sourced from natural gas, and improves process efficiency with lower energy consumption. PDH also boasts higher product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and attractive alternative for meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus addressing catalyst deactivation issues faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it reduces reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a superior method for its production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional methods. Propylene's demand reached 116 million tons in 2020, underscoring its critical role in industrial applications. While alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) exist, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the most promising pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, making PDH an even more viable solution for utilizing abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers direct propylene production, addressing the growing demand and providing better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further improve these advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, indicating ongoing challenges in the technology's efficiency and product purity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts are active but prone to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration are desired. PDH's renewed interest, driven by abundant shale gas resources, highlights its potential in utilizing these resources efficiently for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially as demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for PDH show promise with good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane feedstock, reducing by-products, and is particularly advantageous as conventional processes like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet growing demands due to fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a viable solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term sustainability, addressing the need for new catalysts and enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting widely available propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It offers greater efficiency and resource use compared to traditional methods, bypassing energy-intensive processes and reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane as a feedstock, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods. It leverages existing facilities, minimizing investment needs, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, addresses global propylene demand by offering high conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This streamlined process is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional methods, making PDH a sustainable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, bolstered by shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive, requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propene, a vital industrial raw material. It leverages the abundant propane from shale gas, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, provide cost-effective and nontoxic alternatives to conventional Pt and Cr-based catalysts, addressing the challenges of limited catalytic activity and poor stability. PDH specifically tackles the limitations of conventional production methods by ensuring feedstock availability, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas. Its adjustable factories and the significant price difference between propylene and propane, coupled with growing market demand, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, thanks to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. This addresses feedstock availability issues. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, exhibit high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustment and pressure control, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its exclusive selectivity to olefins, making it a promising supplement to traditional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike methanol-to-olefins (MTO), Fischer-Tropsch to olefins (FTO), and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), PDH utilizes the abundant shale gas, offering a strategic advantage in feedstock availability. Its high process efficiency and product selectivity address the limitations of conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock constraints and lower efficiency. PDH's thermodynamic properties and ability to activate CH bonds selectively, while suppressing CC cleavage, ensure high selectivity towards olefins, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields compared to conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts. PDH's lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, abundant due to the natural gas boom, as a feedstock. PtSn-based catalysts efficiently catalyze propane dehydrogenation, although deactivation and stability issues are challenges. PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation issues, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high costs and environmental concerns, PDH technologies are being improved through the investigation of alternative catalysts, notably indium-based ones, which show promise for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlights efforts to enhance PDH efficiency and address the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, including the Oleflex and Catofin technologies, face challenges due to the high cost of Pt metal and toxicity of Cr catalysts, which limit their development. Developing cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than conventional feedstocks. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly uses propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in regions with shale gas resources, meeting the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical component. It directly produces propylene without creating hybrid products, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective, addressing conventional production's feedstock limitations. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it superior, with propylene demand projected to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the technology's importance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, specifically propylene, unlike conventional methods which produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to overcome challenges in product selectivity and environmental impact associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides abundant and cost-effective propane for PDH, addressing feedstock issues. PDH inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to its anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feed, single-product process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring steady supply. PDH's lower costs and market competitiveness make it a preferred choice over traditional methods, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. This method improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing the need for dwindling petroleum resources. Despite being a highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited process requiring high temperatures, PDH is commercially viable, as evidenced by processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, high temperatures facilitate side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, presenting a challenge for industrial-scale production. Developing PDH technology with improved catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, recently developed, require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH addresses the challenges posed by the disrupted balance in propylene production, caused by the availability of ethylene from ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas. As a result, PDH is recognized as the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene, effectively tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on dwindling oil, making it an efficient and selective process for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure. PDH's use of abundant propane, higher efficiency, and selectivity result in lower costs and environmental impact, making it a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the importance of developing efficient catalysts for PDH, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, avoids coke formation, and is advancing with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts for improved propene selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 shows environmental promise but requires enhanced activity. Future catalyst design should focus on abundant elements and low temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. It offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production, utilizing widely available cheap propane from shale gas. PDH achieves high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an attractive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It overcomes challenges of conventional methods by offering alternative non-petroleum based propylene production. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in catalysts without noble metals. An innovative approach encapsulates NPs in an NC layer, controlling ZnO NP size and preventing loss at high temperatures. This results in high PDH performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cost-effective feedstock. It directly transforms propane to propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and a demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially achieve higher propylene yields and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering a viable alternative to conventional methods. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher energy efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It consumes less energy and emits fewer pollutants, making it a sustainable choice. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts offers a more targeted production process, addressing the growing global demand for this essential chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. It utilizes vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, thus enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it a preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in utilizing abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene. This method offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further improve process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the heavy demand in the feedstock market. It offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. PDH efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting the rising global propylene demand, notably by improving on the short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity issues of conventional Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production. It addresses feedstock availability by utilizing abundant shale gas resources, enhanced by the increasing supply from shale gas exploration. Challenges include catalyst deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering under high-temperature conditions. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency and product selectivity without requiring oxychlorination regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, offering potential improvements in process efficiency and product selectivity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with good onstream stability and high selectivity, are being developed to address the limitations of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones. This suggests that PDH, employing such catalysts, may provide a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, especially where demand cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining attention for its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet increasing demands. PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity make it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increased propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face limitations due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, offer a viable alternative, enhancing PDH's potential for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting widely available propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It offers a more efficient use of resources and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, bypassing energy-intensive processes with lower propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It can be easily retrofitted into existing facilities, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, and minimizing byproduct formation. This results in a more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable production method compared to traditional oil-based processes, which often have lower yields and require complex separation steps. PDH's reliance on abundant propane ensures a stable feedstock supply, while its energy efficiency and high propylene yields make it a leading choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propene production, addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance catalytic activity and stability, achieving high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. This makes PDH a promising solution for overcoming feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It addresses conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. Fracking technology has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, and PDH factories' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and price difference between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, showcasing high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can approach ideal results. PDH is energy-intensive, yet increasing single-pass propane conversion reduces costs. Strategies include raising temperature, lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures availability, high conversion, and selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, being thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, provide process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. Utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher propene selectivity, leading to higher yields and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology compared to conventional methods. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. However, challenges remain, particularly with catalyst deactivation and stability. Commercial PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with efforts ongoing to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and low propane costs from shale gas. Despite drawbacks in existing PDH technologies, research into indium-based catalysts shows promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing efforts to improve PDH include investigations into a variety of catalysts, indicating the technology's potential to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have spotlighted catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising method for propylene production. PDH processes, notably Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, address conventional production challenges. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, using abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike conventional methods that rely on limited naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process in a single reactor, which reduces costs. This technology targets propane conversion to propylene, leading to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, enhancing sustainability and cost-effectiveness. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene, offering a sustainable solution especially in regions rich in shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. It leverages abundant and cheaper propane feedstock from shale gas condensates, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Propylene demand is projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the significance of PDH's proprietary process in meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have led to a 75% drop in gas costs since 2005, making shale gas a cost-effective feedstock. This has prompted a shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., resulting in a decline in propylene supply and a surge in its price. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields exclusive olefins, unlike conventional methods, and is optimized for polymer-quality purity, making it a superior choice for meeting the demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst used in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts are known for high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas-derived propane, which ensures feedstock availability. It also avoids overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, outperforming MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Enhanced by the abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It uses propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. The abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady and affordable supply, making PDH a competitive choice over conventional methods that are limited by feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but faces issues due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that affect C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its economic competitiveness, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. This method improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability. As a critical petrochemical, propylene's demand is growing, and PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it commercially viable and less dependent on scarce petroleum resources. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, impacting propylene selectivity. Developing PDH technology, particularly in enhancing catalyst efficiency and stability under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production, marked by new plant constructions, highlights its efficiency. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt species have drawbacks, including health risks and high costs. Recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, though requiring metal oxide promotion and Ru/Rh NP support, show potential for addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. With the disruption of the balance in ethylene and propylene supply due to increased ethane cracking, PDH emerges as a solution to ensure adequate propylene supply. It is considered the most efficient process to meet the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high process efficiency with a high propane-to-propylene conversion rate, and high selectivity minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation offers flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It is considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. The literature highlights the need for novel catalysts, with vanadium-based options showing promise for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, making it efficient and economically viable. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without depending on depleting petroleum resources, offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less available naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, lowering energy consumption and costs compared to multi-step processes. Its modular implementation allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's high yields and lower environmental impact make it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to address the challenges of conventional methods. It tackles limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the importance of developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for PDH, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and has potential in ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 processes. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are promising, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally beneficial, requires improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and consider abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propylene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap and offering eco-friendly, cost-efficient production. It utilizes abundant, cheap propane from shale gas as feedstock, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This technology's advantages make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, offering an alternative to non-petroleum-based propylene. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, as a promising alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of zinc-based catalysts for industrial PDH processes. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Catalysts designed with encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating PDH's efficiency and product selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The ZnO-based catalyst in PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for a stable and cheap source of propane. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, making it an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially offer higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike naphtha and crude oil, improving availability. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. With higher product selectivity for propylene, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, unlike complex traditional methods. This technology tackles issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a sustainable and attractive alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. It utilizes vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants. This results in process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional techniques in cost and environmental impact. The PDH process is particularly advantageous due to advancements in hydraulic fracturing, which have increased the availability of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing its conversion to high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs due to shale gas use, and a more efficient process, enhancing selectivity. The development of an active, selective, and durable catalyst is crucial for maximizing PDH's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering improvements in feedstock use, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. However, the challenge of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity in Pt-based catalysts must be overcome to fully realize PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, despite its high-temperature requirements and challenges with catalyst deactivation and regeneration, is gaining attention for propylene production due to increased propane supply from shale gas exploration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve PDH efficiency and address limitations, indicating PDH's potential in utilizing abundant shale gas resources effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, particularly where demand cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show promise in PDH, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods in terms of process efficiency and product selectivity. The development of these catalysts is crucial due to the disadvantages of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane feedstock, reducing by-products, and offers higher efficiency and selectivity. Unlike conventional processes, such as naphtha steam cracking, PDH ensures a steady supply of propylene, a key component in the production of various chemicals, meeting the increasing needs without the constraints faced by traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane reserves, PDH technology is gaining prominence. Commercial PDH, using Catofin (Cr/Al2O3) and Oleflex (PtSn/Al2O3) processes, faces challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt costs. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, address these issues, making PDH a viable solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity in converting widely available propane directly into propylene. This process is more efficient and less energy-intensive than traditional steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking methods, which have lower propylene yields. PDH's resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact make it a superior alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, which are widely produced by petrochemical processes. It offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment. This makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene production, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, driven by shale gas and natural gas abundance. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key industry issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing propane from shale gas as a feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, though cost-effective and non-toxic, have limitations in activity and stability. The addition of moderate Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances both catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking technology has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely affordable. PDH's adjustable factories can run various reactions, making the technology highly profitable due to the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, with high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed for propylene production, is atom-economic, converting propane to propylene and H2 with high value. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures can improve conversion, guided by equilibrium trends. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by efficiently converting abundant propane to propylene with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out as a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas as a feedstock addresses these issues, making it a strategic choice in meeting the growing global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, and can utilize propane sourced from various feedstocks, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, offering flexibility. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes provide high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improving selectivity. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, improving efficiency. PDH's direct conversion process also limits the formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide, further enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, abundant from shale gas and natural gas production, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Commercial PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts for dehydrogenation, but deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges like high Pt costs and Cr's environmental impact. Indium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high stability and selectivity in PDH. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and low propane costs from shale gas. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to improve PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH is considered promising due to its potential to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are in use. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods by utilizing propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor design enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, offering key advantages over conventional methods. PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, addressing feedstock availability issues faced by traditional naphtha and heavier oil cracking processes. This technology boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. PDH's sustainable and cost-effective conversion of low-value propane into high-value propylene, especially in shale gas-rich regions, makes it a cleaner, targeted production method, well-suited to meet increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, as it directly produces propylene without creating hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, shale gas condensates rich in propane are now more accessible and cost-effective, ensuring a steady feedstock supply. PDH's exclusive production of propylene boosts product selectivity, a critical advantage over conventional methods. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for future production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to tackle product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing global demand challenges. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, making it a leading solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. While the text does not detail feedstock availability advantages, PDH offers a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the challenges of conventional methods. The development of shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction technology has made raw material propane more abundant and cheaper, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive propylene production method, addressing the shortfall of traditional naphtha and coal cracking processes in meeting global demand. PDH uses propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, enhancing process efficiency. The availability of cheap light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady supply, making PDH cost-effective. Its advantages, such as single feed and product, wide raw material sources, and lower costs, make it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, impacting C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and cheaper propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, crucial for various products including plastics. As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH addresses the depletion of petroleum resources, offering a commercially viable process developed by Catofin and Oleflex. However, the high-temperature requirement for PDH catalysis promotes side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking, addressing the growing global demand sustainably. New PDH plants are increasing its contribution to overall propylene production. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, enhancing activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, as conventional methods struggle with the disrupted balance caused by ethane cracking for ethylene production. PDH emerges as an on-purpose method that can effectively tackle these issues, ensuring a reliable source of propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH, which is an on-purpose non-oxidative process gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an effective alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes widely available propane from shale gas production, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. Compared to steam cracking, PDH has lower operating costs, higher propylene yields, and is more sustainable and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to the growing global demand. Its endothermic reaction requires high temperatures for high yields, highlighting the importance of developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr based catalysts, and using renewable green propane as feedstock. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) avoids coke but can lead to overoxidation. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are emerging as highly active and selective. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with further development, can transform propylene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. Its key advantages include the use of cheap, abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, and offering eco-friendly, cost-efficient processes. This makes PDH a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst, overcoming the limitations of scarcity and toxicity associated with current PDH catalysts. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97% at 853 K, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. By encapsulating NPs into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH catalysts achieve about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating its efficiency and environmental friendliness without relying on non-noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more environmentally friendly approach to propylene production, avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the need for ecologically harmful chlorine, unlike conventional methods. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which often result in a gap between demand and supply of propene due to high energy consumption. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages over conventional propylene production methods by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a more abundant and stable feedstock than naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. PDH addresses the need for efficient production processes to meet the increasing demand for propylene by offering higher yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and selectively produces propylene, unlike the less efficient and more polluting steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil. PDH's reliance on propane, sourced from natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability compared to oil-based methods. Its higher product selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, makes it an attractive solution for meeting the growing global demand for this key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, thus preventing catalyst deactivation common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock flexibility. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, highlighting process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, a key industrial component, saw a demand of around 116 million tons in 2020. While alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) exist, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred method for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further bolstered propane conversion, enhancing its utilization through abundant shale gas extraction.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and direct propylene production, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, widely used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, as noted: 'Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has great potential to meet the increasing global demand for propylene, but the widely used Pt-based catalysts usually suffer from short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity.'", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to enhance process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas for propylene production highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted as an attractive alternative for propylene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH may provide process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. The development of novel catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising route for direct and efficient propylene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet demand as fossil energy consumption rises. PDH's efficiency and selectivity offer a strategic advantage, making it a key player in the production of essential chemicals like propylene oxide and acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane reserves spotlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key technology. Conventional PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, which are widely available from petrochemical processes. It can be easily integrated into existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene production, reduces byproducts, and is more energy-efficient with higher yields, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by achieving high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, thanks to enhanced zinc-based catalysts with Ni. This makes PDH a promising solution for propylene production, specifically tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and the technology's adaptability and the growing propylene market make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, which addresses feedstock availability. The development of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 supports high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand and conventional production challenges. Its endothermic nature is limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, yet optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, despite being energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures can improve conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane ensures feedstock availability, high efficiency, and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in propylene yield and by-product minimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. The use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher propene selectivity, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and advantageous approach.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant propane from diverse sources, including shale gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. This process directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproduct formation, and operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective than high-pressure processes. However, challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and long-term stability. The process avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making PDH a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, are gaining interest due to the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Despite drawbacks like high cost and environmental impact, ongoing research into catalysts like indium-based materials highlights PDH's potential for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Investigations into a variety of catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicate continuous efforts to enhance PDH technology, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits highlight the potential of catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, notably the Oleflex and Catofin technologies, offer promise. However, the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr catalysts in these processes are limitations. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Using abundant propane as a feedstock, PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations, reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in regions with ample propane supply, effectively meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant shale gas feedstock, offering sustainability and cost-effectiveness. PDH exhibits higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology's ability to turn propane into propylene, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, makes it a sustainable and economically beneficial solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods by ensuring feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing technology has made propane, a key feedstock, cheaper and more plentiful. PDH's selectivity in producing only propylene, not hybrid products, and the need to regulate reaction conditions for improved efficiency and selectivity, make it a promising solution. The forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035 underscores the importance of PDH's development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking technologies have lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and highlighting PDH's profitability. PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, specifically propylene, making it an advantageous alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH indicate superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The pursuit of a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges associated with traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, its prevention of overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and its high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. This suggests PDH offers advantages over conventional methods, potentially including better feedstock utilization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, addresses the limitations of traditional methods that relied on naphtha and coal. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its economic competitiveness, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods that rely on steam cracking and face issues with decreasing fossil oil resources, PDH utilizes abundant propane, addressing feedstock availability. This process, while endothermic and equilibrium-limited, avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propene improves process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not dependent on scarce petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, especially improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, particularly in feedstock availability. Previously, the balance of industrial demand for ethylene and propylene was met by naphtha crackers, but the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas has disrupted this, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH is highlighted as an efficient process capable of meeting the large demand for propylene, making it a key solution in the current landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high process efficiency with a notable conversion rate of propane to propylene, and high selectivity minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs compared to traditional petrochemical plants. As an on-purpose non-oxidative process, PDH has gained attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration technology. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative for propylene production with high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on depleting petroleum resources, making it an effective solution to meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, making it economically and environmentally viable, with lower operating costs and higher yields compared to conventional steam cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional production methods. The endothermic nature of the PDH reaction necessitates high temperatures for high yields, highlighting the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This focus on catalyst development is a key advantage of PDH, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH addresses challenges in conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving process efficiency and product selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but PDH outperforms in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activation. The scarcity of catalytic elements suggests a shift towards more abundant alternatives. Research on low-temperature CO2 activation is a priority. PDH's development could transform propylene manufacturing, utilizing green propane for a sustainable chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It utilizes cheap propane from abundant shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) offers a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. PDH, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route. However, the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. Zinc-based catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a more efficient and environmentally friendly process compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability with cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts. The innovative approach involves encapsulating NPs into an NC layer, grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support, which controls ZnO NP size and prevents loss at high temperatures. This results in high PDH performance, with propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating the technology's promise in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst, developed for PDH, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the gap between propene demand and supply. PDH offers improved process efficiency and product selectivity, making it an emerging and efficient technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by offering advantages over conventional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable in supply than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative production route that doesn't depend on specific feedstocks, unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It consumes less energy and emits fewer pollutants, making it more sustainable. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, addressing the growing global demand for this crucial chemical raw material more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, surpassing traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, excels in propane conversion to propylene with high selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common catalyst deactivation issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming alternatives like MTP and WGSR in terms of cost and environmental impact. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered PDH by enabling the conversion of abundant shale gas into high-value propylene, making PDH a cost-effective and environmentally sound choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs due to abundant shale gas, and a more efficient process, enhancing product selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH is crucial for further enhancing its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH improves propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability by capitalizing on abundant shale gas resources, enhancing process efficiency through optimized conversion rates, and improving product selectivity. The technology's ability to utilize shale gas, a byproduct of increased exploration, highlights its advantage in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand cannot be met by steam cracking. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with good onstream stability and high selectivity, show promise for PDH, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods. The development of novel catalysts aims to overcome drawbacks of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising route for efficient propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, making it a promising alternative. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet demands as fossil energy consumption rises. PDH's efficiency and selectivity in producing propylene, a vital precursor for various chemicals, address these challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increasing propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Commercial PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face limitations due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term utility, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces byproduct formation, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. This addresses conventional methods' limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, as evidenced by Quote 5: 'To tackle these challenges, the active site isolation strategy has been proved to be effective.'", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for propene production, a key raw material for various industrial products. It leverages widely available propane from shale gas, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by moderate Ni, improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a cost-effective and nontoxic solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes that are fossil fuel-dependent, have high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. With fracking technology, shale gas, rich in propane, offers a cheap feedstock for PDH. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, demonstrating high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and energy-intensive, optimized catalysts and conditions enable near-ideal conversion rates. Increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments reduces costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, and improving process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over conventional SC and FCC methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency. PDH specifically addresses these issues by utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, ensuring high selectivity to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its direct conversion process from propane, sourced from various feedstocks, and higher selectivity to propene result in lower production costs and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane as feedstock, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas production. PDH offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, particularly those using indium-based catalysts, offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to further enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, with its Oleflex and Catofin processes using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts respectively, addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher efficiency and product selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, especially from abundant shale gas resources. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH directly uses propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This makes PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with shale gas, addressing the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's selectivity for propylene over other products boosts efficiency. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual demand growth until 2035, PDH's advantages in feedstock, process, and product make it vital for meeting future propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemical production. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has led to a drop in propylene supply and a rise in its price, creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH indicate superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to overcome challenges associated with conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides cheap propane, addressing feedstock scarcity. PDH curbs overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high selectivity for propylene distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts significantly boost the performance of Co-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property are key to the high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the challenges of conventional methods. With advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, propane becomes more abundant and cheaper, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of a single feedstock (propane) and single product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. The abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, addressing limitations of traditional methods. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause catalyst instability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by economically converting low-cost propane to value-added propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability. This method utilizes propane, an important chemical raw material, enhancing feedstock availability and bypassing intermediate steps to minimize undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical used in diverse products. As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter production route. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH addresses the limitations of dwindling petroleum resources. However, the process's high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a key challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based cracking technologies. Its growing contribution to propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed to address these issues, promoting sustainable and efficient propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Historically, naphtha crackers balanced the industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, but the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key technology for meeting the large demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. PDH is a non-oxidative process gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It's considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking. The use of novel, non-noble metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, is highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them promising for PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical industry component. It leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, overcoming limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on dwindling oil, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and scarce naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's abundant feedstock, higher yields, and lower energy consumption make it a more sustainable and cost-effective choice compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, utilizing renewable green propane. Non-oxidative PDH avoids coke formation, while oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high activity and selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in PDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activation in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to advance green propane-based propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several key advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, ensuring a reliable feedstock. PDH achieves high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the need for efficient and eco-friendly processes. This technology is cost-effective and environmentally friendly, making it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to non-petroleum based propylene. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, with its good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrates potential for industrial PDH processes. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current commercial PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient process, offering higher product selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often struggle to meet the demand for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH potentially offers higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. By not relying on specific feedstocks, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and offers higher selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking processes that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it utilizes propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional techniques like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, bolstering PDH's position as a leading solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active and selective PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering improvements over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for more efficient processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses challenges in propylene production. It leverages abundant shale gas resources, offering advantages in feedstock availability. However, it faces issues with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering under high-temperature conditions. Stable, anti-sintering catalysts are desired to improve efficiency and selectivity, as coke deposition is inevitable under PDH conditions. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas resources highlights its potential in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH is particularly advantageous where steam cracking cannot meet the growing demand for propene, highlighting its benefits in feedstock availability. The development of novel catalysts for PDH aims to overcome drawbacks of current industrial catalysts, such as high costs and toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands. Propylene, a key chemical precursor, benefits from PDH's efficiency and selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional production processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. PDH, with its Catofin and Oleflex processes, faces challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt, which restrict its growth. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, offering a viable alternative with long-term potential due to Co's earth abundance. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a key solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, readily available from petrochemical processes, and its compatibility with existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. It excels in higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a leading solution to meet growing global demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. This results in a more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable production method compared to traditional oil-based processes, which often have lower yields and require complex separation. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced dependency on oil make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a key industrial raw material. It leverages the abundant propane from shale gas, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, though cost-effective and non-toxic, have limitations in activity and stability, which are improved by introducing moderate Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite. This enhancement, alongside PDH's feedstock flexibility and process efficiency, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering high efficiency and selectivity unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent and emit high CO2. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. With fracking technology, PDH benefits from cheap propane-rich shale gas as feedstock. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, thanks to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. The development of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 demonstrates high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, both high value-added products. Its endothermic reaction, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can closely approach ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures can boost conversion. Reaction conditions should balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. PDH's use of propane as feedstock, high conversion rate, and selectivity address conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins (MTO), Fischer-Tropsch to olefins (FTO), and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) using O2, CO2, and N2O. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative ethane and propane dehydrogenation, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits over steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking of naphtha and heavy oil. PDH utilizes alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges. Propane, abundant and sourced from various feedstocks, ensures feedstock availability. PDH's higher selectivity to propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and advantageous process.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "The growing demand for propylene and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas have highlighted PDH as a promising method for on-purpose propylene production. PDH uses widely available propane as feedstock, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, making it more efficient and selective. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage. Direct conversion of propane to propylene in PDH offers high product selectivity and reduces unwanted byproducts. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH improve process efficiency, reduce energy consumption, and potentially lower greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity with minimal formation of byproducts such as hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues are challenges, but efforts are made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids the issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, such as Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers potential advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Indium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high stability and selectivity in PDH, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research on various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates continuous efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have spotlighted catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, notably Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, restricting further development. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is a key challenge for PDH to fully address conventional production limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. PDH's single-reactor process simplifies operations, reducing costs. Its higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock, offering higher process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner production process that meets growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It excels in feedstock availability, leveraging shale gas condensates rich in propane, made abundant by hydraulic fracturing. PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity are unmatched, as it exclusively produces propylene without byproducts. The technology's proprietary nature enhances propylene selectivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's role in ensuring supply is critical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking technologies have led to a cost-effective shale gas boom, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. This has prompted a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking, resulting in a drop in propylene supply and a rise in its price, creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products. Optimized PDH processes can produce polymer-quality olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of the CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its key advantages: abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock from shale gas extraction, effective inhibition of overoxidation enhancing process efficiency, and high propylene selectivity distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. This advancement supports recycling PDH reactions, making it a promising method for propylene production, especially in the context of global demand and limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of a single feedstock, propane, and single product, propylene, which enhances process efficiency. The shift to light alkanes from unconventional gas sources like shale gas ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, unlike traditional naphtha and coal methods. PDH's lower production costs and wide availability of raw materials make it a competitive choice in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH offers high activity and yields. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical used in diverse products (Quote [1]). It offers an alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency (Quote [2]). PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex (Quote [3]). However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions such as cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quotes [4]-[6]). Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. The use of Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds for re-dispersing Pt is also environmentally harmful. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, emerging as a key method for on-purpose propylene production. The disruption of the historical balance in ethylene and propylene production due to the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas has necessitated the search for proper methods for propylene production, with PDH highlighted as a solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. The technology's high conversion rate of propane to propylene and minimized by-product formation make it a promising alternative to conventional methods. Recent developments in vanadium-based catalysts, which are active, selective, and regenerative, further enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, addressing limitations of traditional noble metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price gap between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency due to depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, addressing market needs effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's economic and environmental benefits, including lower operating costs and higher propylene yields, make it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by leveraging high-temperature conditions necessary for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction. Its advantages include the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, which are essential for achieving high propylene yields and efficiency, surpassing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, avoids coke formation, and is advancing with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts for improved selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 offers environmental benefits but requires activity enhancement. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and CO2 activation at low temperatures, aiming to transform propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the supply-demand gap by utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas. It offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient processes, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of zinc for industrial PDH processes. This highlights PDH's advantages in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which often result in a gap between demand and supply of propene due to high energy consumption. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by offering advantages over conventional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH's catalytic processes improve efficiency and selectivity, selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH potentially offers higher propylene yields and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH's benefits include improved feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and better product selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering higher efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity compared to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. Unlike these conventional processes, PDH is less dependent on oil-based feedstocks, more energy-efficient, and directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and attractive solution for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, highlighting process efficiency and product selectivity benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional techniques. In 2020, the demand reached approximately 116 million tons, highlighting the need for efficient production methods. PDH, alongside MTP and WGSR, has gained attention, but its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of an active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further improve process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods. It effectively utilizes the abundant propane supply from shale gas exploration, addressing feedstock availability challenges. As a highly endothermic process, PDH requires high temperatures for conversion, highlighting its process efficiency. The technology's ability to produce propylene selectively is also advantageous. Stable, anti-sintering catalysts are crucial for PDH's cyclic operation, indicating ongoing research needs. PDH's potential to leverage shale gas resources for propylene production underscores its relevance in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propylene production, particularly due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with good onstream stability and high selectivity, are being developed for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane. These advancements suggest PDH may offer process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. The literature highlights the importance of developing new catalysts to address the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production is gaining prominence due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands. This makes PDH a promising solution in the face of increasing global need for propylene, a key chemical in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. PDH processes, notably the Cr/Al2O3 catalyst-based Catofin and the PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst-based Oleflex, face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with the earth's abundance of Co suggesting long-term viability, addressing the urgent need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, unlike energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH offers greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact, making it advantageous in addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane and butane as feedstocks, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It addresses conventional method challenges by not requiring significant investment, as existing facilities can be easily retrofitted.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity. It offers a more sustainable and economically viable alternative to traditional methods by minimizing byproducts, increasing propylene yields, and reducing energy consumption. PDH's reliance on propane ensures a stable feedstock supply, while its high conversion rates and selectivity streamline the production process, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, crucial for various industrial products. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance catalytic activity and stability, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH achieves high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process specifically targets propylene, avoiding the production of mixed hydrocarbons. The advent of fracking technology has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, capable of running various reactions, and are highly profitable due to the price difference between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient ZnO-based catalysts supported on silicalite-1 boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, exhibiting high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature is optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion, reducing costs. Reaction conditions are critical for both commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH specifically tackles conventional production challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity with minimal by-products, making it a promising solution for escalating propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional SC and FCC methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and economically viable solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing widely available propane, PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts, and operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology, as highlighted in quote 6. The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas production, mentioned in quote 4, provides a steady supply of propane, making it an economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, offering energy savings over processes requiring higher pressures. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and the production of COx, as explained in quote 7, making it a more selective process for propylene production. However, challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, as noted in quote 2.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, particularly those using indium-based catalysts, offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, indicates efforts to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are pivotal. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development. The quest for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge, highlighting PDH's potential for innovation in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Using propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH benefits from abundant and stable feedstock supply. It offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods, with the process simplified in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane, meeting global propylene demand more efficiently than traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by not relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, offering better feedstock availability. PDH boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas, meeting the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations. Propylene demand is forecasted to rise 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the significance of efficient production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs. This has shifted feedstock preference from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking, resulting in a drop in propylene supply and a price surge. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, making it favorable in current market conditions. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose production of propylene, ensuring polymer-quality purity, unlike conventional methods that yield mixed olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation, underscoring PDH's potential to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing global demand challenges. Shale gas extraction provides abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, tackling feedstock availability. PDH's ability to prevent overoxidation, unlike ODH, boosts process efficiency. Moreover, PDH's high propylene selectivity sets it apart from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The active Co species and surface acid property, tuned by Ti species, contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    