Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as a single product. It leverages unconventional natural gas sources for cost-effective and steady propylene supply, offering lower production costs and higher efficiency than traditional methods, making it competitive for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges by enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Despite high-temperature requirements that can cause coking and particle sintering, advancements in nanostructured catalysts improve propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It enhances catalyst activity and stability, improves feedstock availability, and boosts process efficiency by minimizing side reactions, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for the increasing global demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical used in various products. It directly converts propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter production route compared to conventional methods. PDH addresses the depletion of petroleum resources by being commercially viable, with processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a key solution for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote 1). Its role is expanding with the construction of new plants (Quote 2). However, conventional PDH catalysts face challenges, including Cr(VI) toxicity and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent advancements have led to the development of eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, addressing the limitations of traditional catalysts (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. By optimizing feedstock availability and enhancing process efficiency, PDH effectively overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, positioning itself as the leading on-purpose propylene production method. Recognized for its efficiency, PDH directly addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a standout solution in the propylene production industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and reduces capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity and regeneration capabilities, make PDH a cost-effective solution, overcoming limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price gap between propane and propylene, making it a superior method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It surpasses conventional production methods by ensuring a reliable feedstock supply, enhancing efficiency, and improving product selectivity, particularly in light of depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, offering higher efficiency and selectivity. This reduces dependence on costly naphtha, ensures a stable supply, and allows for modular, flexible production. PDH's direct conversion process yields higher propylene output with lower energy consumption, making it a sustainable, cost-effective alternative to traditional steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by utilizing high-performance catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, directly tackles the challenges of conventional propylene production. Its emphasis on catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, essential for the endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures, makes PDH a promising solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are also being explored, with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts showing promise. However, ODH-CO2 catalysts have lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing, offering a more sustainable and efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently meets global propylene demand. It offers eco-friendly, cost-effective production with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Zn@S-1 catalysts, efficiently meets global propylene demand by addressing conventional method challenges. These catalysts boast high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Notably, it achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out as a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering a greener alternative to oil-based cracking by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity significantly, maintaining high selectivity, thus highlighting PDH's advantages in meeting global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock, directly converting propane to propylene with enhanced efficiency and selectivity. This non-oxidative process addresses the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gaps of conventional propylene production, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, maximizing yields and optimizing shale gas resources. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes addresses feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to feedstock-dependent methods like steam cracking and FCC, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand, a key raw material for various products. It surpasses conventional naphtha and crude oil-based methods by boosting energy efficiency, minimizing CO2 and NOx emissions, and enhancing propylene selectivity, directly tackling their limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with traditional naphtha cracking's high energy use and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, boosts propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outperform traditional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These advancements lead to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and lower environmental impact make it superior to conventional techniques. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance PDH's appeal by facilitating the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas resources, underscoring its role in meeting growing propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhances feedstock availability and reduces production costs. It streamlines propylene production, improving efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods. A durable, highly active catalyst optimizes the PDH process, further boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, notably through improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental benefits are significant. Pt-based catalysts in PDH notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for meeting global propylene demand, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Conventional methods, often relying on Pt-based catalysts, struggle with short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas resources, effectively meets the global demand for propylene. Its endothermic process, despite catalyst challenges, surpasses conventional methods in feedstock availability and efficiency. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhance PDH's efficiency. PDH's compatibility with shale gas underscores its superiority in overcoming limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. This innovation, particularly effective where steam cracking is maxed out, makes PDH an attractive alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing feedstock availability and process limitations, making it a superior alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, effectively addressing limitations in conventional propylene production. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging cobalt's earth abundance, ensure PDH's long-term viability, specifically enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting propane to propylene with high selectivity, boosting efficiency and resource utilization while minimizing environmental impact. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, outperforming traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, especially where conventional methods face challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers superior efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it more sustainable and economically viable than traditional methods. PDH boasts higher propylene yields and reduced byproducts, addressing the growing global demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the abundance of light alkanes from shale and natural gas, overcomes conventional propylene production limitations. Despite high energy demands and temperatures that challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH effectively employs active site isolation, curbing side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, as evidenced by its success in mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Zinc-based catalysts with Ni introduction enhance activity and stability, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, crucial for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global demand for propylene by overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Specifically targeting propylene production, PDH utilizes cheap propane from fracking as feedstock. Its adaptable factories and the growing market's price differential between propylene and propane make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels with ZnO-based silicalite-1 catalysts, boosting efficiency and selectivity, and offering superior catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized conditions and catalysts. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing single-pass propane conversion. Strategies include increasing temperature and reducing pressures. PDH specifically overcomes conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as a crucial supplement to conventional production methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic nature provides process efficiency advantages. The use of alkanes as feedstocks ensures high selectivity toward olefins, making PDH superior for propylene production amidst increasing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane, boasting higher propene selectivity and yields, which reduces costs. This environmentally friendly method directly addresses the challenges of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, meets rising propylene demand by operating at milder conditions for high yields and reduced byproducts. It directly converts propane to propylene at lower temperatures and pressures, enhancing efficiency and selectivity, potentially cutting energy use and emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas, offers key advantages for propylene production: simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances efficiency over high-pressure processes. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, though deactivation and stability remain challenges. Compared to oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, exemplified by Catofin and Oleflex, offer a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution to propylene production challenges. By optimizing indium-based and nanocarbon catalysts, PDH enhances stability and selectivity. Leveraging low-cost propane from shale gas, PDH addresses feedstock availability and product selectivity issues, making it a viable option to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology stands out for its ability to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of some catalysts limit PDH's potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly alternatives to fully realize its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, particularly in propane-rich regions, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas feedstock, notably propane, offering superior availability over conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice. PDH's targeted process minimizes by-products, ensuring a cleaner production method that meets rising propylene demand while reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2-3% annual rise in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for propylene production. It boasts enhanced selectivity by exclusively producing propylene and leverages the abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock from hydraulic fracturing, directly addressing conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amid growing global propylene demand, offers key advantages. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and enhancing PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is significantly influenced by the price differential between propane and propylene, which is currently favorable. Additionally, PDH's on-purpose technique boosts product selectivity, yielding high-purity olefins, making it a promising solution to meet the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity addresses environmental challenges and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for economical feedstock, boosts efficiency by preventing overoxidation, and excels in propylene selectivity, outperforming MTO and FTO processes, effectively addressing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances Co-based catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, making it a promising method for propylene production by addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high selectivity and cost-effectiveness in propylene production. This efficiency makes PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods with higher energy consumption and lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as the sole feedstock and producing propylene exclusively, addresses the growing global demand for propylene effectively. Its competitive edge, bolstered by abundant and cheap light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, overcomes limitations of traditional methods, making it a leading solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, efficiently meets global propylene demand by enhancing process efficiency and selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, PDH's nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties make it a viable solution for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, converting abundant, low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing challenges posed by dwindling fossil oil resources and growing demand. By directly converting propane to propene, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and petroleum-independent method for propylene production, is economically advantageous and addresses the limitations of conventional methods amid resource depletion. Commercially available through Catofin and Oleflex processes, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most efficient option. However, the endothermic nature and high-temperature requirements of the process lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, posing challenges for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and growing in importance with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt have health risks and cost issues, requiring harmful Cl2 for re-dispersion. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, showing high activity in dehydrogenation processes, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a viable solution for meeting the high global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, boasts high propylene conversion and selectivity, reducing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts boost PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it superior to conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price differential between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures a reliable feedstock, boosts process efficiency, and enhances product selectivity, making it a strategic choice for meeting the global demand for propylene amidst depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boosts efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, reducing byproducts and energy consumption. This results in higher yields and lower costs, offering market flexibility and sustainability, making PDH a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity and selective catalysts, operates at high temperatures to yield high propylene production, making it a promising solution to meet global demand. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, excels with high spacetime yields and addresses global propylene demand by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation to develop lower energy PDH routes, potentially transforming propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently meets the growing propylene demand with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen byproduct, offering a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a non-petroleum-based alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. The development of Zn@S-1 catalysts, driven by noble metal scarcity and toxicity, achieves 97% propylene selectivity and possesses regeneration capability, making PDH processes promising for industrial use. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, effectively addresses propylene production challenges. Non-noble metal catalysts in PDH achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating superior efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener, more efficient alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing the toxicity issues of conventional methods. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, highlighting its environmental compatibility and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective propane supply, converting it to propylene with superior efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. Catalytic processes in PDH enhance efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. By utilizing propane from shale gas, PDH is sustainable and cost-effective, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to traditional processes. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently produces propylene with lower CO2 and NOx emissions and higher selectivity, making it a sustainable alternative to conventional methods. It overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes that struggle to meet the growing global demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking by requiring less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, improves feedstock availability for propylene production. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, contributing to PDH's competitive edge, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 116 million ton demand for propylene in 2020, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, excelling in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers superior cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over conventional techniques. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane availability, further enhancing PDH's role in high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, directly converts propane to propylene with enhanced efficiency and selectivity, thanks to a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst. This method potentially reduces production costs and improves selectivity compared to traditional naphtha and heavy oil methods, addressing the challenges of meeting growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock efficiency, enhanced process longevity, and environmental benefits over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing limitations of traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes conventional method limitations by improving Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas resources, offers enhanced product selectivity and process efficiency, addressing global propylene demand. Its high-temperature conversion process requires stable catalysts for improved efficiency, making it a promising solution compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, provides a direct and efficient method for propylene production from propane, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. These catalysts ensure high selectivity and stability, making PDH a promising alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its abundant propane feedstock, reduced by-products, and enhanced product selectivity, efficiently addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the rising global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane from shale gas, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a solution to conventional production limitations. It addresses the need for new catalysts, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, suggesting long-term viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, while avoiding energy-intensive processes, directly addresses conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, boosts propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making strategic use of existing facilities to cut costs. This directly tackles the limitations of conventional propylene production methods, positioning PDH as a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, ensures high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges by guaranteeing a stable supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas, boosts propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and high-temperature challenges leading to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making it a promising solution to conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, meets global propylene demand with lower costs and nontoxicity. It excels in catalytic activity and stability, enhancing conversion rates and selectivity to propylene, thereby improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, targeting propylene production specifically, overcomes conventional methods' limitations by offering higher efficiency and selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks cost-effective for PDH, enhancing its profitability in the growing propylene market. PDH plants' adaptability further contributes to their economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, addresses feedstock availability issues. Its ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhance efficiency and selectivity, yielding high propylene output and stability, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite thermodynamic limitations, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable results close to ideal. Increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustment, pressure control, and H2 management reduces costs, crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, aligning with the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, distinguishing it from MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It complements traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, utilizing shale gas exploitation. PDH's endothermic properties enhance process efficiency. Efficient catalysts are essential for high selectivity toward olefins, particularly in PDH reactions, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene, ensuring high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It directly tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an environmentally friendly answer to the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production with high yields and reduced byproducts. It operates under milder conditions, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes minimize CC cleavage, maximizing propylene selectivity. Direct propane conversion to propylene decreases unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, featuring Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR processes, is advantageous for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas, including shale gas, ensures steady feedstock supply. PDH's operation without oxidants enhances efficiency and selectivity by avoiding deep oxidation and COx production. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, with efforts focused on improving resistance to coke and protecting active sites from aggregating.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, notably Catofin and Oleflex, are advantageous for propylene production due to the global demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane feedstock. They address conventional method limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Challenges like high Pt costs and Cr's environmental impact have driven research into indium-based catalysts for enhanced stability and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology stands out for its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes, Oleflex and Catofin, are key, but the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in catalysts underscores the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant propane directly into propylene, offering higher selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to conventional methods. It simplifies the process, reducing costs and enhancing sustainability, particularly in propane-rich regions. PDH's efficiency and lower operating costs make it a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, boosts feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective method is ideal for shale gas-rich regions, effectively addressing the global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enabled by hydraulic fracturing, large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates makes feedstock abundant and cost-effective. PDH's proprietary process exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing slashes gas costs, favoring shale gas as a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking reduces propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, is currently favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields high-purity propylene, optimizing olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH indicate superior process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. A green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene is essential, tackling product selectivity and environmental impact challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for feedstock, boosts efficiency by preventing overoxidation, and boasts superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, ensuring product purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% selectivity and good regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Propane's abundance and lower cost from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene from abundant unconventional gas sources, addressing global demand. Its competitive edge lies in lower costs and high efficiency, offering a single product with a wide raw material base.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields, addressing the growing demand. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, posing challenges like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts can enhance efficiency and selectivity by affecting propyl intermediate adsorption, mitigating these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the global demand for propylene. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps, utilizing abundant propane for improved feedstock availability. PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability, making it a competitive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical direct route for production amidst depleting petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. However, the high-temperature requirements for catalytic activity in PDH lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, presenting a challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a preferred method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods (Quote 1). Its growing significance is evident with the construction of new plants (Quote 2). However, conventional PDH catalysts, such as CrOx and Pt-based, have drawbacks including health risks and high costs. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, which exhibit high activity in dehydrogenation processes (Quote 7), addressing the limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets growing global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the imbalance caused by the rise of ethane cracking, making it a key solution for on-purpose propylene production. PDH's advantages in feedstock flexibility and process optimization make it a standout method in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, offering high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Utilizing vanadium-based catalysts, PDH achieves high conversion rates with minimal by-products, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, excelling in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand. It overcomes limitations of traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which face challenges with feedstock availability and efficiency, by offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions lacking infrastructure. PDH offers high yields and lower operating costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing conventional production limitations, excels in enhanced catalyst activity, stability, and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation, crucial for achieving high yields at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr, addressing sustainability with green propane. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but ODH-O2 can lead to overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and increasing CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. PDH, with its green feedstock and efficiency, holds potential to revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. Zinc, as an alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr, is explored in Zn@S-1 catalysts, which exhibit high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making them ideal for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, is a promising method for propylene production, efficiently addressing the challenges of conventional methods. A nitrogen-doped carbon encapsulated ZnO NP catalyst demonstrates PDH's efficiency and environmental friendliness, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting its superiority in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener propylene production method, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and chlorine, with a ZnO-based catalyst that triples propene productivity and matches selectivity under industrial conditions, outshining conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing the demand-supply gap. This non-oxidative process offers superior efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, making it a promising solution for the growing global need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a stable and abundant feedstock supply through propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, addressing the limitations of conventional naphtha-based methods. PDH processes enhance efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly when utilizing shale gas resources. PDH's potential for higher yields and selectivity in efficiently utilizing shale gas and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes makes it superior in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH boosts economic benefits and efficiency, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, sustainably meets growing propylene demand, improving on conventional methods' limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Unlike traditional processes that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts and offering higher selectivity. This method consumes less energy and emits fewer CO2 and NOx, making it a more environmentally friendly option. Propylene, crucial for various products like polypropylene and acrylonitrile, benefits from PDH's production method, addressing the global demand more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive naphtha cracking methods. It utilizes a specialized catalyst for high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues of coke formation and sintering common in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas resources, improves propylene production's feedstock availability. Its vanadium oxide catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, offering competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity over conventional methods, effectively tackling production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst soaring global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a superior production method, leveraging abundant propane feedstock enhanced by hydraulic fracturing. PDH offers enhanced efficiency, selectivity, and cost-effectiveness, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its environmental advantages and high-value product output make PDH a leading solution for meeting propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers a promising solution for propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly addresses conventional production challenges, reducing costs and improving efficiency, making it suitable for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for escalating global propylene demand, offering advantages in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its use of Pt-based catalysts boosts propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional methods, making it an environmentally friendly and economically viable choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, boosts feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It notably overcomes limitations of conventional Pt-based catalysts, enhancing short-term stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, addresses the global propylene demand by ensuring feedstock availability and product selectivity. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable in cyclic coke combustion, enhance efficiency, making PDH a promising propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in selectivity and stability, outperforming conventional propylene production methods. It addresses high costs and toxicity issues, making it advantageous for meeting growing propylene demand where steam cracking falls short.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-product generation, directly tackling the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its enhanced efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a superior solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Leveraging cobalt's earth abundance, PDH ensures long-term viability, making it a prime choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficient conversion of propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering improved resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane and butane, enhancing propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it adaptable to existing facilities and a prime solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers superior propylene production efficiency and selectivity, ensuring a stable supply with fewer byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the abundance of light alkanes from shale and natural gas, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy-intensive nature and propensity for cracking and coking at high temperatures, the active site isolation strategy mitigates these challenges, boosting alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand due to its high conversion rates and selectivity to propene. The enhancement of catalytic activity and stability through Ni addition to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite is critical for efficient propene production, effectively addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by specifically targeting propylene, unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-intensive, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking boom has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, abundantly available and cost-effective, enhancing PDH's adaptability and profitability. This is particularly advantageous given the growing demand for propylene and the favorable price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane and efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, ensures feedstock availability, boosts process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing limitations of traditional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. Despite high energy consumption, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion through increased reaction temperature and lowered pressures, utilizing widely available feedstock, achieving high propylene yield with minimal by-products, and improving process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising supplement to traditional propylene production methods, leveraging shale gas exploitation for exclusive olefin selectivity. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability and meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene yields with reduced byproducts, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, and employs Pt-based catalysts for superior selectivity. Its direct conversion process, enhanced efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potential for lower greenhouse gas emissions directly address the limitations of traditional production methods, making it a promising solution for meeting rising global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, making it advantageous for propylene production. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, using indium-based catalysts, offer improved stability and selectivity, addressing high propylene demand. Shale gas-derived propane's low cost and PDH's ability to overcome challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity highlight its promise over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology, including Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in catalysts necessitates the development of more cost-effective, eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly utilizing abundant propane, achieving higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, particularly in propane-rich regions, thus effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting growing global demand. It utilizes abundant shale gas, offering higher efficiency and selectivity than traditional naphtha or oil cracking methods. PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, addressing environmental concerns and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses the growing global demand for propylene by enhancing product selectivity and benefiting from abundant, cheaper propane feedstock due to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. Its efficiency and selectivity make it superior to conventional methods, crucial as propylene demand is forecasted to grow annually by 2% to 3% by 2035, outpacing production capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing (quote 2) has slashed gas costs (quote 3), making shale gas a prime feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking (quote 4) has led to a propylene supply drop and price surge (quote 5), bolstering PDH's profitability (quote 6). PDH, an on-purpose technique, yields high-purity propylene (quote 7), making it a market favorite.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers superior efficiency and selectivity through the CoSiBeta catalyst, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. This green, low-cost catalyst outperforms CrOx and Pt catalysts in reactivity and selectivity to propylene, highlighting PDH's focus on product selectivity and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts superior propylene selectivity, directly addressing global demand challenges and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH superior to conventional methods in meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet rising global propylene demand. Its high propylene selectivity overcomes limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas alkanes, addresses growing propylene demand by using propane as a single feedstock, offering lower costs and a simplified process compared to traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods, with benefits including a single product (propylene), wide raw material sources, and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses global propylene demand by offering high yields. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, causing coking and particle sintering, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing dwindling fossil oil resources and growing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or the risk of decreased catalyst activity from coke formation, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical method for propylene production from propane, addresses the limitations of conventional methods by offering an alternative feedstock. As propylene is crucial for various products, PDH's commercial viability through processes like Catofin and Oleflex is significant, especially in light of dwindling petroleum resources. However, its high-temperature requirements promote side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is critical for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency benefits for propylene production. Its growing contribution is evident with new plants under construction. Conventional catalysts have health risks and high costs, prompting the development of eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, which address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a prime solution for meeting growing global propylene demand, offering efficiency and product selectivity. Ethane cracking from natural gas disrupted traditional naphtha cracker balance, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH addresses this by ensuring a steady propylene supply, effectively managing feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost-effective propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs, while vanadium-based catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, utilizing abundant propane and leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. This addresses conventional methods' limitations, like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with dwindling petroleum resources, making PDH a more efficient and sustainable propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, boosts propylene production's sustainability and reduces naphtha dependence. Its single-step conversion to propylene enhances efficiency and selectivity, lowering costs and byproducts. The modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-performance catalysts, efficiently dehydrogenates propane at high temperatures, ensuring high propylene yields. This endothermic process enhances efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes renewable green propane, significantly enhancing sustainability. It avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. ODH-O2, while preventing coke, risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally favorable but yields are lower than DDH and ODH-O2. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. Developing lower energy PDH routes using green propane could revolutionize propene manufacturing, offering a sustainable and efficient alternative to traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane for high propylene selectivity and valuable H2 by-product, offering eco-friendly, cost-efficient solutions that surpass conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The scarcity and toxicity of traditional catalysts led to the development of Zn-4@S-1, an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative. This catalyst exhibits a propylene STY of 24 and 97% selectivity, showcasing its industrial potential for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high propene selectivity and propane conversion. It employs cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals, overcoming conventional method limitations. The catalyst's design, with encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, ensures high performance and stability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking, meets global propylene demand without toxic Cr(VI) compounds or chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst triples propene productivity while maintaining selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective propane supply, converting propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. Its non-oxidative process reduces energy consumption, narrowing the demand-supply gap, making it a leading propylene production technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially achieving higher yields than traditional methods. PDH's efficient use of shale gas resources and selective activation of CH bonds for higher propylene yields addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers a flexible feedstock alternative to traditional methods. It enhances efficiency and product selectivity, effectively addressing the challenges of meeting global propylene demand by improving on conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, efficiently addresses the growing demand for propylene, unlike conventional methods reliant on scarce naphtha and crude oil. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable solution for propylene production, directly tackling the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. It excels in propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity and stability, mitigating issues common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, tapping into abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency over oil-based methods. Its superior catalysts boost product selectivity and reactivity. PDH offers competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2020 global propylene demand of 116 million tons, PDH technology emerges as a superior production method due to its cost-effectiveness, environmental benefits, and high product selectivity. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the availability of low-valued propane, making PDH the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant feedstocks, directly produces propylene, offering improved availability, higher efficiency, and enhanced selectivity over traditional methods. A highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the rising global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It excels in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, particularly through enhanced CH bond activation and reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively tackling the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in meeting the global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods by addressing their limitations, notably the short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity of Pt-based catalysts, making PDH a more efficient choice.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using platinum-based catalysts in an endothermic process, excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas resources, a key feedstock availability advantage. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH's potential to meet global demand makes it a promising solution, addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, provides a direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, boasting high selectivity and onstream stability. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering enhanced efficiency, particularly in scenarios where increasing steam cracking demand is not feasible. PDH overcomes the high costs and toxicity issues of current technologies, positioning it as a promising solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels over conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking by offering superior efficiency, selectivity, and fewer by-products, making it a prime solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas-derived propane, PDH technology stands out. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations, notably by using cobalt-based catalysts, which, due to cobalt's earth abundance, ensure long-term viability for increased propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, efficiently meeting global demand while avoiding energy-intensive processes. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cost-effective propane and butane, offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, enabling easy upgrades to existing facilities, directly addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers a sustainable and economically viable solution for propylene production. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and maximizing yields, thus outperforming conventional methods like steam cracking. PDH's streamlined process and lower energy consumption make it cost-effective and environmentally sustainable, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to abundant light alkanes from naphtha, addresses conventional method challenges. Despite high energy demands and temperature issues affecting selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these, affirming its promise.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It excels in high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with moderate Ni, significantly boost catalytic activity and stability, reinforcing PDH's position as a promising industrial raw material production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, significantly boosting profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane, coupled with the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, addresses feedstock availability issues. With efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, yielding high-quality propylene, making it superior for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Enhancing propane conversion by increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures reduces costs. Suitable reaction conditions are critical for commercial success and catalyst development, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its exclusive selectivity to olefins, surpassing MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by leveraging shale gas for thermodynamically efficient production. PDH's high endothermic properties and the activation of CH bonds over CC bonds ensure high olefin selectivity, necessitating the use of appropriate catalysts for optimal results. This makes PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its sustainability and efficiency, offering superior propene selectivity over conventional methods. By utilizing abundant propane sources, PDH enhances feedstock availability and, through its direct process, achieves higher yields and lower costs, making it both environmentally friendly and economically viable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, meets rising propylene demand efficiently. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH improves efficiency, reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and is a sustainable choice, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas, offers a simpler, cost-effective, and easily integrable method for propylene production. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, with their specific catalysts and pressures, highlight the technical diversity in PDH. Challenges like catalyst deactivation and stability are being addressed through research. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are advantageous for propylene production due to their use of stable, selective indium-based catalysts and the low cost of propane sourced from shale gas. Ongoing research into various catalysts aims to further enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves have propelled PDH technology as a promising solution. It directly tackles conventional production limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Challenges with high-cost Pt and toxic Cr catalysts in PDH processes highlight the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives, crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in higher propylene selectivity and lower energy use, making it cost-effective. Its single-reactor design boosts sustainability, meeting global demand, particularly in propane-rich areas. PDH's targeted conversion yields higher output and potentially reduces operating costs, surpassing traditional methods in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, leveraging abundant shale gas for improved feedstock availability over conventional naphtha or oil methods. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective process is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, offering a cleaner, targeted production method that meets rising propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly yields propylene with high selectivity, unlike conventional methods. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, propane feedstock becomes abundant and cost-effective. With propylene demand projected to grow significantly, PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology offers key advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals and transportation fuels. This has led to a shift in U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price, enhancing PDH's profitability. PDH's on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, like propylene, with polymer-quality purity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods, especially in the current market conditions where the price difference between propane and propylene is favorable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly with the CoSiBeta catalyst, which boosts catalytic activity and selectivity. It develops green, cost-effective catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficiently inhibits overoxidation, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrates robust regeneration stability, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Its high product selectivity and process efficiency address the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity by leveraging abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction. This makes PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, specifically addressing the limitations of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as the sole product, leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources for a steady, cost-effective supply. Its lower production costs and streamlined process make PDH competitive, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields but faces challenges at high temperatures due to coking and sintering. Despite this, its enhanced efficiency and selectivity, particularly through nanostructured catalysts, make PDH a leading solution for global propylene demand, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a viable solution for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, offering an advantage over conventional methods with catalyst activity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the growing demand for this critical petrochemical. It offers a commercially viable and economical route, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. However, the process's endothermic nature and high temperature requirements can lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions remains a key challenge for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by quote [6].", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based methods. Its contribution to propene production is growing. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, address the health risks and cost issues of conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting rising global propylene demand, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key contender for large-scale propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking. Advancements in shale gas exploration enhance its appeal. The development of novel catalysts, notably vanadium-based, is pivotal for improving activity, selectivity, and regeneration, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production. It ensures a steady propylene supply without depending on dwindling petroleum, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production's sustainability and cost-effectiveness. Its direct conversion process enhances efficiency and selectivity, reducing byproducts and energy consumption. Modular plant design offers flexibility and lower operating costs, making PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for meeting global propylene demand, overcoming conventional production challenges. Its endothermic nature necessitates high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, essential for process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses conventional methods' challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH-O2) using boron catalysts shows promise without coke issues. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but less efficient. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on lower energy routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production, addressing growing demand with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Notably, the Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity and achieves 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, underscoring its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high activity, selectivity, and stability in eco-friendly, cost-effective catalysts, overcoming conventional production challenges. A PDH catalyst, with NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieved 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting its efficiency in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The ZnO-based catalyst in PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, highlighting its efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, addressing the challenges of energy-intensive processes and the propene demand-supply gap. This non-oxidative route is an emerging solution to the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, addressing limitations of conventional methods that rely on less stable and less available naphtha. PDH's use of shale gas resources makes it more sustainable and cost-effective, with potential for higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a viable alternative to conventional methods. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a sustainable solution for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, with improved energy efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, making it an attractive option for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a Pt/Sn catalyst, economically and environmentally outperforms traditional naphtha cracking by achieving high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability. It minimizes coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas as feedstock, reduces oil dependence and employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts. This enhances process efficiency and product quality, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and selectivity while offering cost and toxicity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the soaring global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method. PDH offers a cost-effective and environmentally sound pathway for high-value propylene production, excelling in process efficiency and product selectivity. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH efficiently converts abundant low-valued propane, addressing the limitations of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It boosts efficiency and product selectivity, simplifying the process and reducing costs. A selective catalyst further improves these attributes, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers key advantages over conventional methods: enhanced feedstock flexibility, improved process efficiency, and superior product selectivity, particularly through CH bond activation. Pt-based catalysts significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making PDH a leading choice for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global demand for propylene by overcoming conventional method limitations, notably improving propylene selectivity and stability issues associated with Pt-based catalysts, thus enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas resources, excels in high-temperature propane conversion, making it a promising solution for the increasing global demand for propylene. This highlights PDH's potential in propylene production, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, directly and efficiently produces propylene from propane, addressing global demand. It offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods. Novel catalyst developments aim to enhance PDH's potential by overcoming current technology drawbacks.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products. It effectively meets growing demand, outperforming conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with inefficiencies. PDH's superior efficiency and selectivity make it a leading alternative, overcoming limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and shale-gas-derived propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a scalable and sustainable solution. Unlike conventional methods limited by toxicity and high costs, PDH, using cobalt-based catalysts, leverages Co's earth abundance for long-term industry sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering superior resource utilization and a smaller environmental footprint compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a prime solution for global propylene demand. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities avoids significant investment, directly tackling conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, addressing feedstock constraints, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity. It minimizes byproducts, simplifying production and reducing costs. PDH's superior energy efficiency and higher propylene yields, along with reduced reliance on complex separation processes, make it a viable solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers key advantages in propylene production. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy consumption and the risk of cracking and coking at high temperatures, the active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. [2] The change in feedstock from naphtha to light alkanes has spurred the development of PDH technologies. [5] Active site isolation has been proven effective in tackling the challenges of selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method. It excels in conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods with lower selectivity and heavy fossil fuel reliance. The fracking boom has slashed propane costs, a key PDH feedstock, enhancing its efficiency. PDH plants are versatile, capable of various reactions, and the widening gap between propylene and propane prices, coupled with a growing market, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, addresses feedstock availability issues. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost activity, stability, and selectivity, enhancing efficiency and propylene yield, thus overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process (Quote 3), efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results (Quote 4), despite thermodynamic limitations. Strategies like temperature adjustment and pressure control (Quote 7) enhance efficiency and propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high propylene yield and selectivity. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to conventional methods. It leverages shale gas for exclusive olefin selectivity, outperforming other pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature enhance process efficiency. Efficient catalysts are critical for high olefin selectivity, especially in PDH, due to propylene's lower stability compared to ethylene. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity to propene, which leads to increased yields and reduced costs. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from sources like shale gas, offering high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It operates at milder conditions, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH enhances product selectivity and process efficiency, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, making it advantageous for propylene production. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, each with unique catalysts and pressures, demonstrate PDH's versatility. Catofin's atmospheric pressure operation highlights efficiency. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, highlights its advantages. Indium-based catalysts in PDH show high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research on catalyst diversity further boosts PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology offers a promising solution by addressing limitations of conventional methods. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, providing an alternative to limited feedstocks. However, the high cost of platinum and chromium toxicity in PDH catalysts highlight the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor, reducing costs. This sustainable and cost-effective method, boasting higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, is ideal for regions with ample propane supply, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene with high conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products for a cleaner, more targeted process. This makes PDH a sustainable, cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions, addressing the challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, highlights PDH technology's pivotal role. PDH exclusively produces propylene with enhanced selectivity, addressing product selectivity challenges. Hydraulic fracturing unlocks vast, cost-effective propane supplies, overcoming feedstock limitations. Regulating reaction conditions boosts propylene productivity, underscoring PDH's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as advantageous. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing (quote 2) slashed gas costs (quote 3), favoring shale gas as feedstock. The shift to shale-based ethane for steam cracking reduced propylene supply, hiking its price (quote 5). PDH's profitability, linked to propane and propylene price differential (quote 6), is currently favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies (quote 7) produce high-purity propylene, addressing feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the need for a green, low-cost solution with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently prevents overoxidation, and achieves high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. Shale gas extraction ensures plentiful propane, addressing feedstock scarcity. PDH's process efficiency and superior product quality make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, enhancing efficiency, selectivity, and feedstock utilization, thus addressing conventional method limitations and meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offering high propylene selectivity to meet growing global demand cost-effectively and efficiently, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. Its competitive edge in lower production costs makes it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability and higher costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields and activity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, nanostructured catalysts in PDH enhance efficiency and selectivity by tuning properties, crucial for adsorbing propyl intermediates, thus addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources by utilizing propane, enhancing feedstock availability. PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient conversion of propane to propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability and provides a shorter production route compared to conventional methods. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and low propylene selectivity, PDH's development focuses on creating efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability for industrial propylene production, as highlighted in quote [6].", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods, addressing feedstock limitations. Its expanding role in propylene production, marked by new plant constructions, underscores its efficiency and selectivity advantages. However, conventional catalysts pose health risks from Cr(VI) exposure and suffer from Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, which exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation, effectively addressing these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting rising global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically tackles feedstock availability issues, emerging as an efficient alternative for on-purpose propylene production, overcoming limitations in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexibility and reduces capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a superior choice, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production. It ensures a sufficient supply without relying on diminishing oil reserves, improving feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions lacking infrastructure. PDH boasts lower operating costs and higher yields than conventional methods, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and energy consumption, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels by overcoming conventional production limitations. Its endothermic process, requiring advanced catalysts for high yields, enhances activity, stability, and selectivity, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leads in propylene production, boasting high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It excels by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and enhancing selectivity. PDH outshines ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 in selectivity and activity. Future PDH catalysts should aim for improved propene selectivity and CO2 activation, using more abundant elements. Research on lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently bridges the propylene supply-demand gap, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane. It boasts high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly hydrogen by-product, offering a cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, notably Zn@S-1, addresses propylene production challenges. Zn@S-1 catalysts achieve 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity at 853 K, showcasing high selectivity and regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's industrial potential and overcoming conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels with 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. ZnO-based catalysts significantly boost PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand while being environmentally compatible.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, crucial for propylene production. Its direct transformation process is notably more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route specifically tackles the challenges of conventional production, offering an emerging solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, addressing feedstock availability. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from diverse sources, including shale gas, PDH is a sustainable, cost-effective solution that meets growing propylene demand with higher yields and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, offering greater feedstock flexibility, higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher energy efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity in propylene production. Unlike conventional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH enhances sustainability by directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, meeting global demand more efficiently and environmentally.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, offers economic and environmental advantages over energy-intensive naphtha cracking. It achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing common issues of coke formation and sintering, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts feedstock availability and reduces reliance on oil-based sources. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outperform conventional options in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advancements contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method. PDH optimizes feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a cost-effective and environmentally sound solution for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, highlighting PDH's role in leveraging abundant shale gas resources. Considering the cost of the technical process and environmental effects, PDH is often regarded as the most promising pathway for producing high-valued propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing feedstock availability and potentially lowering production costs compared to traditional steam cracking methods. Superior catalysts in PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity, simplifying propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, notably in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental benefits make it superior. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, faces critical hurdles with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit short-term stability issues and suboptimal propylene selectivity, key challenges for its superiority in production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke, requiring frequent regeneration. The search for stable Pt-based catalysts during cyclic coke combustion aims to improve process efficiency, underscoring PDH's advantage in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is favored for propene production due to its superior onstream stability and high selectivity, particularly in high-demand regions. It offers a more direct and efficient pathway to produce propene from propane, addressing limitations of conventional methods by providing a solution where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products, effectively overcomes the challenges of conventional propylene production methods like naphtha steam cracking, which face issues with feedstock availability and excessive by-product generation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and shale-gas-derived propane reserves, PDH technology, particularly with cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a sustainable solution, enhancing efficiency in meeting propylene demand compared to conventional methods using toxic Cr or costly Pt catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, offering superior efficiency and a reduced environmental footprint compared to traditional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, enhances propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing global demand more effectively than conventional methods. Its retrofitting capability overcomes limitations of existing facilities.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates, selectivity, reduced byproducts, and energy efficiency, making it a sustainable and economically viable process compared to traditional methods, thus addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability, offers key advantages in propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH employs the active site isolation strategy, effectively boosting alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective, non-toxic method for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity. Ni-modified zinc-based catalysts boost catalytic activity and stability. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. The affordability of propane feedstocks, thanks to fracking, and the adaptability of PDH factories contribute to its high profitability, especially in the growing propylene market. This on-purpose process directly addresses the challenges of conventional methods, making PDH a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. The ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 significantly enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, showcasing high catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its endothermic nature, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can be optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions to closely match ideal outcomes. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by enhancing single-pass propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically overcomes conventional method limitations by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, with minimal by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins unlike alternative pathways. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods. Its thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties contribute to process efficiency, ensuring high selectivity towards olefins essential for effective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers higher propene selectivity, yielding more propylene at lower costs, making it a sustainable and efficient solution to meet global demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts at milder conditions than steam cracking. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. PDH's direct propane-to-propylene conversion minimizes byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and may reduce greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant natural gas and shale gas sources, offers key advantages in propylene production. It simplifies reactant and product distribution, reduces investment, and integrates smoothly with current technology. PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, operate under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite ongoing challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods. This makes PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, offers high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research on catalysts, including indium-based ones, enhances PDH's efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology stands out for utilizing shale-gas feedstock, which boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, effectively addressing the shortcomings of conventional production methods. However, the high cost of precious metals and environmental concerns restrict PDH's full potential, highlighting the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more abundant and stable supply, higher efficiency, and selectivity, targeting higher propylene yields at potentially lower costs. Its single-reactor setup makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by converting abundant shale gas propane with high efficiency and selectivity, unlike conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It offers greater feedstock flexibility, directly converting propane with high conversion rates and minimal by-products, maximizing economic benefits. This sustainable, cost-effective process is ideal for shale gas-rich regions, making it a cleaner, more targeted solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a leading solution, exclusively producing propylene to enhance selectivity. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock from hydraulic fracturing, addressing conventional method limitations. PDH's efficiency and selectivity are pivotal for meeting the projected 2% to 3% annual demand increase until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, utilizing cost-effective shale gas extraction for feedstock. The shift to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability. PDH's on-purpose nature ensures exclusive production of high-purity propylene, directly addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It demonstrates superior catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity. PDH's green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene tackles environmental impact and product selectivity challenges not fully addressed by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, boosts efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation and offers superior propylene selectivity, effectively addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, effectively tackling challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane's abundance and lower cost, offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet growing global propylene demand. Its high propylene selectivity addresses limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene exclusively, offers enhanced efficiency and taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. Its competitive edge in lower production costs makes it superior for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses propylene production challenges by enhancing selectivity and efficiency, despite high-temperature requirements that can lead to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the growing demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH skips intermediate steps, enhancing efficiency and selectivity by minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly and economically converts propane to propylene, addressing growing demand and resource depletion. It's the most viable alternative to conventional methods, offering a shorter production route. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, promoting side reactions that affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient, stable catalysts under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental advantages by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods, and its significance in propylene production is increasing with new plant constructions. Challenges with conventional catalysts include health risks from Cr(VI) exposure and cost and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts. Recent advancements feature eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, demonstrating high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. It adeptly tackles feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges, making it a standout solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion and selectivity with minimal by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making PDH superior to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on its price advantage over propylene. Unlike traditional methods, which struggle with depleting oil resources, PDH ensures a sufficient propylene supply without depending on diminishing oil reserves, making it a critical advancement for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a stable propylene production method, unlike naphtha-dependent processes. Its single-step conversion enhances efficiency and selectivity, reducing byproducts and energy use. PDH's modular design enables flexible, localized production, suitable for areas with infrastructure limitations. Economically and environmentally, PDH provides lower operating costs and higher yields, making it a sustainable solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production. Its endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, making it advantageous in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and offering environmental benefits. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, reduces coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements to ensure sustainability and transform propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, achieves high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, sustainably and cost-effectively addressing global propylene demand. This method overcomes conventional production limitations, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts like Zn@S-1, offers high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity make PDH a more efficient and sustainable choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its use of cost-efficient, environmentally friendly catalysts achieves superior propene selectivity and propane conversion rates, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses environmental concerns and boosts propylene production efficiency. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source, addressing feedstock limitations. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, reducing energy intensity. PDH's improved process efficiency and product selectivity, through its non-oxidative route, narrows the demand-supply gap for propene, making it an emerging industry technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas as a stable feedstock, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, outperforming conventional naphtha-based methods. This sustainable and cost-effective process yields higher propylene outputs, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene efficiently, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Its key advantages include feedstock flexibility, higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for the increasing global demand for propylene, a critical chemical raw material. Unlike conventional methods that rely on limited naphtha and crude oil, PDH is more energy-efficient and emits less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its higher selectivity for propylene ensures better feedstock availability, especially from natural gas, and reduces oil dependency. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts addresses the challenges of conventional processes, which are high energy-consuming and significantly increase CO2 and NOx emissions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability. Unlike conventional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting, PDH effectively addresses common issues, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for enhanced feedstock flexibility, boasts superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Its use of vanadium oxide catalysts outshines Pt-based and CrOx-based alternatives, offering better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, which translates to lower costs and reduced toxicity, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology stands out as the most promising method for production. It excels in cost-effectiveness and environmental impact, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered propane utilization through the extraction of abundant shale gas, addressing feedstock availability challenges and enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for propylene production, offering improved feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and better product selectivity than traditional methods. By directly producing propylene from propane, PDH promises lower costs and a more efficient process. Developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst could further enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity, addressing the challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in meeting global propylene demand, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods, and provide environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for escalating propylene demand, despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity, highlighting ongoing advancements in the field.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production by overcoming feedstock availability issues. Its endothermic process, enhanced by stable Pt-based catalysts, boosts efficiency and selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and good onstream stability, making it a promising alternative for propylene production. It addresses the growing global demand more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, particularly in regions with feedstock limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly overcoming the limitations of conventional naphtha steam cracking methods that struggle to meet rising demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by offering a more abundant feedstock and long-term viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand, offering high selectivity in converting propane to propylene. It bypasses energy-intensive steps, improving resource use and reducing environmental impact compared to traditional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cheap propane, boosts propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges by leveraging diverse feedstocks and enabling facility retrofits, making it a promising solution for growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology ensures a stable propylene supply, is energy-efficient, and has high selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable and economically viable solution, overcoming conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers a solution to propylene production challenges, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and selectivity issues, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these challenges, as evidenced by its successful implementation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for growing global propylene demand. It overcomes catalyst limitations by enhancing activity and stability, ensuring feedstock availability, achieving high conversion rates, and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. This addresses conventional production challenges, making PDH a crucial method for various industries.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a targeted process for propylene production, overcomes conventional methods' limitations by using abundant, cheap propane as feedstock, thanks to fracking technology. This makes PDH highly adaptable and profitable, especially considering the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, addressing global propylene demand. With ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, showcasing high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite being endothermic, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts achieve near-ideal results, mitigating high energy consumption. Strategies to increase propane conversion, such as adjusting temperature and pressure, enhance efficiency and selectivity, tackling conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demands for olefins. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH specifically addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing higher selectivity to olefins, which is crucial for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient route for propene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity to propene, which translates to higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive solution to meet global propylene demand amidst challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high yields and minimal byproducts. Its lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology, addressing challenges in propylene production. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specific catalysts and operation conditions for optimized performance. Despite catalyst deactivation challenges, efforts are made to improve stability. PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it more selective for propylene production compared to oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Ongoing research into catalysts aims to improve PDH's stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, emerges as a solution that leverages feedstock availability to overcome conventional production challenges. While these processes are promising, there's a need for more cost-effective and eco-friendly catalysts to further enhance their efficiency and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies production, reducing costs and making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts low-value feedstock into high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity, with minimal by-products, ensure a cleaner, targeted production process, effectively meeting growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock is now accessible, making PDH a proprietary method that exclusively produces propylene, boosting selectivity. With a forecasted 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand spotlights PDH technology, which overcomes conventional production challenges. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing slashes gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking reduces propylene supply, driving up prices and underscoring PDH's potential. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current propane-propylene price gap. As an on-purpose technique, PDH excels in producing high-purity propylene, unlike mixed-product conventional methods, making it a compelling choice in today's market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, featuring the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its superior catalytic activity and selectivity over conventional methods make it a standout solution. However, the high cost and environmental issues of current PDH catalysts highlight the need for a more sustainable, cost-effective alternative with enhanced reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for economical feedstock, prevents overoxidation for improved efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, effectively addressing challenges in conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrates good regeneration stability, effectively tackling process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet global propylene demand, leveraging abundant propane from advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, surpassing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    