Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, directly produces propylene, addressing the global demand more effectively than traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional sources like shale gas, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply. PDH's focus on a single product and its wide availability of raw materials make it a promising and competitive method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields and addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, advancements in nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by better adsorbing propyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity and economic viability. It enhances process efficiency by bypassing intermediate steps and avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability, especially as fossil oil resources decline.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by being independent of petroleum resources and the most direct and economical route. However, the high temperatures required for catalytic activity in PDH promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is critical for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the challenges of maintaining high propylene yields and catalyst longevity. This is evidenced by the commercial availability of PDH processes like Catofin and Oleflex, which are designed to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits and process efficiency for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Its growing importance is evident with new plant constructions. Conventional catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly developments include ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a superior method for on-purpose propylene production. It specifically tackles the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexibility and reduces capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is cost-effective and outperforms conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, enhance PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the propylene demand challenge. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures a sufficient supply, making it a promising solution for the petrochemical industry amidst depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production's sustainability and cost-effectiveness. Its single-step conversion process directly from propane to propylene minimizes byproducts and energy use, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, highlights the need for high-performance catalysts, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering high spacetime yields with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. With further development, PDH can transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing the global supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers key advantages for propylene production, notably tackling the limitations of conventional methods. Zinc, particularly in Zn@S-1 catalysts, emerges as a promising alternative, boasting good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it suitable for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and stability. By using catalysts without non-noble metals and encapsulating NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves superior performance, with nearly 90% propene selectivity at significant propane conversion, demonstrating its effectiveness in meeting global propylene demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental advantages by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional methods. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's benefits, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional processes, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock. Its direct conversion process is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's non-oxidative route makes it a leading technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from various sources including shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, boasting higher yields compared to conventional methods. This process efficiently utilizes shale gas resources and selectively activates CH bonds of light alkanes, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offers a feedstock-independent and more efficient alternative to conventional methods. It ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a sustainable solution to meet global demand. It utilizes abundant propane feedstock, enhancing availability compared to scarce naphtha and crude oil used in conventional methods. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it eco-friendly. Its high selectivity for propylene, unlike the varied hydrocarbon outputs of traditional processes, addresses the growing need for this critical chemical raw material. Unlike steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are high energy-consuming and increase CO2 and NOx emissions, PDH offers a more benign and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative to energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking for propylene production. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly mitigating issues of coke formation and sintering, common in conventional processes, which lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas as feedstock, diminishes oil dependency and utilizes efficient vanadium oxide catalysts for enhanced reactivity and selectivity, making it a cost-effective and less toxic solution for propylene production, thus addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "To meet the soaring global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising method, offering superior feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it a standout choice over conventional techniques. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH efficiently converts low-valued propane into high-value propylene, solidifying its position as a preferred production pathway.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for propylene production, offering superior feedstock availability, enhanced efficiency, and selectivity over traditional methods. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH reduces costs and boosts efficiency. The development of a high-performance catalyst further amplifies these benefits, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt-based catalysts, offers an efficient and environmentally friendly method for propylene production. It enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively overcoming challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for PDH advancements to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Its endothermic process and stable, anti-sintering catalysts improve upon conventional methods, addressing their limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in selectivity and stability, directly addressing conventional propylene production's limitations like high costs and toxicity. This makes PDH a more efficient and preferred method to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst rising global propylene demand, is recognized for utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-product generation, directly overcoming the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with increasing needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas propane reserves, PDH technology stands out, particularly addressing challenges with traditional catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging Co's properties, offer long-term utility and fulfill the need for new catalysts in PDH, making it a promising method for propylene production, effectively tackling limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steps. It optimizes resources and reduces environmental impact, outperforming traditional methods in feedstock management, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane, achieving higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It allows for the easy adaptation of existing facilities, avoiding substantial investment. This directly tackles the challenges of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene conversion, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable and cost-effective process directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. It addresses conventional challenges through an active site isolation strategy, improving selectivity and catalyst stability despite high reaction temperatures that risk cracking and coking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic solution for propylene production, addressing global demand. It excels in conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The incorporation of Ni into zinc-based catalysts significantly enhances catalytic activity and stability, critical for PDH's superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, enhancing its economic appeal. PDH plants are adaptable, capitalizing on the price disparity between propylene and propane, and the growing propylene market, making PDH a highly profitable solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity with ZnO-based silicalite-1 catalysts, optimizing process efficiency and product quality compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus for propylene production, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economy and endothermic nature, though limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can be optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions to closely achieve ideal results. PDH, despite being energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion, which is crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity while minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for escalating global propylene demand, offering exclusive olefin selectivity over MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It supplements traditional methods, utilizing abundant shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic limitations ensure high efficiency, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. Its selective activation of CH bonds over CC bonds, suppressing CC cleavage, is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially considering propylene's lower stability. This ensures high product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity and yields that cut production costs. This makes PDH a compelling choice to meet global demand, overcoming conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and lowering emissions. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene, aided by Pt-based catalysts, ensures high product selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration, is advantageous for propylene production. Propane from abundant shale and natural gas sources ensures a steady feedstock. PDH's efficiency without oxidants avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it more selective. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use distinct catalysts, with ongoing efforts to enhance stability and resistance to deactivation. These advancements address conventional method limitations, making PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by low-cost propane from shale gas, offers high stability and selectivity, particularly with indium-based catalysts, addressing limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Ongoing research aims to further enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining prominence, particularly through Oleflex and Catofin technologies. This method addresses conventional production challenges by offering improved feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of platinum and chromium toxicity in PDH processes highlight the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by directly converting propane to propylene, offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity, addressing feedstock limitations. Its single-reactor process reduces costs and energy use, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, particularly in propane-rich areas, thus effectively meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology converts abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, particularly in shale gas-rich areas, effectively addressing the challenges of meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates, ensuring exclusive propylene production without byproducts. Regulating reaction conditions enhances propylene selectivity and productivity, addressing the forecasted demand exceeding production capacity by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, tackling feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity issues. Enhanced fracking (quote 2) slashed gas costs (quote 3), favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane (quote 4) reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's attractiveness (quote 5). PDH's profitability (quote 6) hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, and its on-purpose technique (quote 7) yields high-purity olefins, making it a market favorite.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a green, low-cost CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It offers high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which face issues like high cost, environmental concerns, and rapid deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, enhancing feedstock availability. It boosts efficiency by avoiding overoxidation and excels in propylene selectivity, outperforming MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The Co species and Ti-tuned surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in high propylene selectivity, efficiently addressing global demand challenges. Its cost-effectiveness is bolstered by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making PDH a superior alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, efficiently produces propylene, leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources for a steady, cost-effective supply. Its competitive edge, including lower production costs and high product selectivity, makes it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, meets global propylene demand with high yields. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, affecting C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, however, boost efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically advantageous for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It tackles challenges posed by dwindling fossil oil resources and growing demand by improving feedstock availability. By skipping intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, PDH boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can impair catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a vital petrochemical for diverse products, faces growing global demand, prompting the development of alternative production technologies. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising method, offering an economical and direct conversion of propane to propylene. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH addresses challenges in conventional production, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Despite requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for propylene production, highlighting the need for advanced catalyst development to enhance selectivity and stability under severe operating conditions.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking in propylene production. Its importance grows with new plant constructions. Conventional PDH catalysts, however, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, address these limitations, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, excelling in efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a solution for on-purpose propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost-effective feedstock, high propane-to-propylene conversion rates, and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, enhancing efficiency with high activity and selectivity for propylene, make PDH superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and the significant price advantage over propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods, ensuring sufficient supply without depleting oil resources, making it a key solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhances feedstock availability and reduces reliance on costly naphtha. Its single-step conversion boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. With high yields and lower operating costs, PDH is a sustainable, cost-effective solution that overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for addressing the global propylene demand, leveraging its endothermic reaction that necessitates high temperatures for high yields. Its development of high-performance catalysts specifically addresses conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses global propylene demand by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation, while ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, enhancing propene yield. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets global propylene demand. It boasts high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly, cost-efficient production, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Zn-4@S-1 catalysts, addresses global propylene demand by offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The catalyst's high dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability ensure exceptional propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. This highlights PDH's advantages in meeting the growing global need for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-efficient, eco-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability. Its design, with nanoparticles encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and eliminating chlorine use in catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts under industrial conditions, highlighting its superiority in meeting global demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient than conventional methods, addressing their energy-intensive nature. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it an advantageous technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH tackles feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges. Its use of propane from shale gas sources makes PDH a sustainable, cost-effective option, potentially yielding higher propylene selectivity and efficiently utilizing shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers a promising solution to meet global demand by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively converting low-value propane into high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior efficiency and environmental benefits over conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane, reducing dependence on oil-based feedstocks, and is more energy-efficient with lower CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's higher selectivity for propylene directly converts propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the challenges of conventional processes that are high energy-consuming and significantly increase CO2 and NOx contaminants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. It uses a catalyst that enhances propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock flexibility and vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, offers a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a vital industrial component, conventional production methods struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as a strategic solution, efficiently converting abundant low-valued propane into high-value propylene. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it a promising pathway, further bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing that enhance propane utilization, addressing the significant demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its key advantages over traditional methods include enhanced feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and selectivity. An advanced catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, solidifying its position as a promising propylene production alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its environmental benefits and the use of Pt-based catalysts for improved propylene selectivity and catalytic stability directly address limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes conventional method limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, notably improving on Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources to enhance feedstock availability, addressing the global propylene demand. It tackles coke deposition challenges, a key issue in process efficiency and product selectivity, through the development of anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, maintaining stability during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in high propylene selectivity and stable operation, surpassing conventional methods. Steam cracking's inability to boost propene output highlights PDH's viability. Innovations in catalysts, driven by high platinum costs and chromium toxicity concerns, further underscore PDH's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. As propylene demand rises, PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution, effectively overcoming the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, excels in efficiency and selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Cobalt's earth abundance ensures PDH's long-term viability, meeting the global demand for propylene amidst rising shale-gas availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by directly converting propane with superior selectivity and efficiency, surpassing conventional methods in energy use and yield. It optimizes resources and reduces environmental impact, tackling issues in feedstock availability and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using readily available propane and butane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its retrofit capability minimizes investment, making it a viable solution for growing global propylene demand, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply and reduced byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based methods, making it a sustainable solution for meeting global demand, as it excels in propylene production while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas availability, effectively tackles conventional production challenges. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements, PDH's active site isolation strategy, proven effective in practice, enhances selectivity and catalyst stability, mitigating issues of cracking and coking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for global propylene demand, boasting high conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, offer cost-effective, nontoxic alternatives, improving catalytic activity and stability, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly targeting propylene, unlike conventional methods that have lower selectivity and rely on fossil fuels. The fracking boom has slashed propane costs, a key PDH feedstock, making the process economically attractive. PDH's flexibility and the expanding propylene market, bolstered by the favorable price gap between propylene and propane, underscore its profitability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs advanced ZnO-based silicalite-1 catalysts for high activity, stability, and selectivity, significantly enhancing efficiency and propylene yield, thus addressing limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2 through an atom-economic reaction, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates. Increasing propane conversion under controlled temperature and pressure reduces costs and enhances selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, using widely available feedstock and improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It serves as an effective supplement by leveraging the abundant alkanes in shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's unique properties make it advantageous in terms of product selectivity, making it a key method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, operates under milder conditions to yield high propylene with minimized byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene, boosting efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures. This cuts energy use and emissions, offering superior product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, an abundant feedstock due to the shale gas boom, is utilized under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges like catalyst deactivation and stability are being addressed through improved resistance to coke and protection of active sites. PDH avoids deep oxidation issues and COx production, making it more selective for propylene compared to oxidative dehydrogenation. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, with their specific catalysts and pressure conditions, showcase PDH's adaptability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, highlights its advantages over conventional methods. PDH, notably with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into catalysts like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and the availability of propane from shale-gas, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, offers a promising solution. These processes, using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts respectively, enhance feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, converting abundant propane with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption in a simplified single-reactor process, effectively addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas feedstock, notably propane, to efficiently produce propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving superior propane conversion and propylene yield compared to conventional methods. PDH's targeted conversion process is cleaner, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, particularly in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in addressing the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical. It leverages abundant shale gas condensates, rich in propane, ensuring a cost-effective feedstock. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without byproducts, enhances process efficiency and product selectivity. This is crucial given the forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand until 2035, outstripping production capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, leveraging cost-effective shale gas extraction (Quote 2) to lower feedstock costs (Quote 3). The shift from naphtha to ethane cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price (Quote 5). PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap (Quote 6), is currently favorable. Its on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets the global demand for propylene by converting abundant propane into value-added propylene. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity, exemplified by the CoSiBeta catalyst, outperform conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, prevents overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating robust regeneration stability in recycling reactions. This addresses the challenges of product selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high selectivity and utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making it superior for meeting escalating global demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods. PDH's wide raw material availability and lower costs make it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields and activity, addressing challenges in conventional propylene production. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can limit selectivity and affect catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts in PDH enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by utilizing abundant feedstocks, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired reactions, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting rising propylene demand, offering economic and process efficiency as a direct propane-to-propylene converter. It's the most viable alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with dwindling petroleum resources. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can cause cracking and coke formation, PDH's commercial availability and selectivity improvement efforts make it a promising solution. Enhancing catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, addresses global propylene demand more sustainably than oil-based methods. It overcomes limitations of conventional catalysts: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent advancements in eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, enhance propane dehydrogenation activity, effectively addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out as a superior method for propylene production, addressing growing global demand by excelling in efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key on-purpose production technique. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking highlights the need for innovative approaches in propylene production, where PDH emerges as a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for propylene production, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, address limitations of conventional catalysts, enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology effectively meets rising global propylene demand, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price gap between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production without depleting petroleum resources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its endothermic reaction and high-temperature requirement for high yields, excels in propylene production by leveraging high-performance catalysts for enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity. This superiority directly addresses the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability through the use of renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron-based catalysts, shows promise for enhancing selectivity and activity. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity for CO2. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 catalysts need enhanced CO2 activation. Research should prioritize abundant chemical elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to transform propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing catalysts like Zn-4@S-1, meets global propylene demand with high efficiency. Zn-4@S-1 demonstrates superior dehydrogenation activity and 97% propylene selectivity, making PDH a competitive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand. It overcomes conventional production challenges, as demonstrated by achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a sustainable alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It eliminates the use of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity by three times compared to conventional methods, underlining PDH's advantages in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane feedstock, enhancing production efficiency. It surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing their energy-intensive nature and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, marking it as an emerging and advantageous technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as feedstock, ensures a stable and abundant supply, overcoming naphtha's limitations. Its catalytic processes enhance efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it sustainable and cost-effective. It offers higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods, addressing the growing global demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a viable alternative to conventional processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, is a sustainable solution for growing propylene demand, a key raw material for diverse products like polypropylene. It excels over conventional methods by ensuring better feedstock availability, higher energy efficiency with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and increased selectivity for propylene. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene with fewer byproducts makes it a greener and more efficient choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability. Unlike conventional methods, PDH minimizes coke formation and sintering, addressing catalyst deactivation issues, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene while reducing energy intensity and CO2 emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces dependence on oil-based feedstocks, enhancing propylene production. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2020 demand for 116 million tons of propylene, PDH technology emerges as a superior solution, outshining MTP and WGSR by addressing feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity challenges. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it the preferred method, especially as shale gas conversion enhances propane utilization, solidifying PDH's role in high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in meeting the growing global demand for propylene by offering superior feedstock availability, higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Developing an advanced catalyst could further enhance PDH's direct and efficient propylene production capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It surpasses conventional methods through efficient CH bond activation, extended reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the global demand for propylene effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, despite Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity issues, offers key advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, addresses feedstock availability for propylene production. Its capability to handle increased propane supply and use of stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts for cyclic coke combustion enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high selectivity and onstream stability, efficiently addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods, especially in meeting demand beyond steam cracking capacity, making it a direct route for propene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and offering a more efficient, selective process than conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, effectively addressing challenges in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology is emerging as a solution. It faces catalyst challenges due to high-temperature operations, but cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging cobalt's earth abundance, offer a promising answer, enhancing PDH's long-term viability and addressing the industry's need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity and bypassing energy-intensive processes. It boasts higher efficiency and a lower environmental impact than traditional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and butane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene. Retrofitting existing facilities is feasible, avoiding significant investment, and addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high propylene conversion with selectivity and minimal byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and cost-effective than traditional methods, ensuring stable production and reducing dependence on oil-based feedstocks, making it a sustainable solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, ensures feedstock availability. Despite high energy needs and selectivity hurdles, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates PDH's challenges, underscoring its promise.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness, nontoxicity, and improved catalytic activity and stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers superior propylene selectivity, avoids fossil fuel reliance and CO2 emissions, distinguishing it from conventional methods. Leveraging affordable propane from fracking and adaptable factories, PDH is highly profitable, bolstered by the growing propylene market and favorable price differentials.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas and efficient ZnO-based catalysts, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges by ensuring feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus for meeting global propylene demand, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic reaction, optimized through catalysts and conditions, ensures high efficiency and selectivity. PDH tackles conventional production challenges by maximizing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, utilizing widely available feedstock for high yield with minimal by-products. This process optimizes conditions for commercial viability and catalyst development, as evidenced by strategies to enhance conversion and selectivity, making it a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, addressing global demand by leveraging shale gas resources. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH, PDH offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its ability to efficiently activate CH bonds without cleaving CC bonds is crucial for high olefin selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting growing propylene needs. Appropriate catalysts are necessary to achieve high selectivity toward olefins, especially for PDH, considering the lower stability of propylene relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It boasts higher selectivity to propene, leading to increased yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a superior process for propylene production under milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. This direct conversion method improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easy integration with current technology. It utilizes abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but research is improving resistance to coke and protecting active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, showcasing the technology's versatility.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Advancements in alternative catalysts, such as indium-based ones, show promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Commercial processes like Oleflex and Catofin highlight the need for more cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts to further advance PDH technology, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by directly converting propane to propylene, offers a stable and abundant feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner solution for propylene production. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation, making it particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich areas, addressing limitations of conventional naphtha or oil-based methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates. Its exclusive propylene output enhances product selectivity, crucial for meeting the projected 2-3% annual growth in demand until 2035, as forecasted. This method specifically overcomes challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques (quote 2) have significantly reduced gas costs (quote 3), making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift to ethane in steam cracking (quote 4) has led to a drop in propylene supply, increasing its price (quote 5). PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price gap between propane and propylene (quote 6), thriving in current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique (quote 7), PDH yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional mixed-product methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's green and low-priced catalyst offers high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, highlighting its advantages in product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently inhibits overoxidation and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The active Co species, influenced by Ti species, and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high selectivity and efficient use of abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, directly addressing the energy-intensive and less selective nature of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as the sole product. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs, process simplicity, and ability to address the limitations of traditional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method that enhances feedstock efficiency and product selectivity. As an endothermic process, PDH requires high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, impacting propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically transforms abundant propane directly into propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. By directly converting propane, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity, avoiding intermediate steps and undesired reactions. This process, utilizing propane as a key raw material, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical method for propylene production, crucial for a wide range of products including plastics and solvents. It addresses the growing global demand and scarcity of petroleum resources, offering a commercially viable alternative to conventional methods. Despite the high-temperature requirement for catalysis, which can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, PDH remains a promising solution, necessitating the development of more efficient catalysts for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based cracking methods. Its role in propylene production is expanding, as indicated by new plant constructions. Conventional PDH catalysts, however, pose health risks from Cr(VI) and suffer from Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, which show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing the challenges of conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in efficiency and product selectivity, making it ideal for meeting the rising global demand for propylene. It overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, distinguishing itself in large-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, boasting a superior conversion rate from propane to propylene and minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH outperforms conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, offering lower costs and higher efficiency. Vanadium-based catalysts are emerging as a promising option due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for novel non-noble metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the abundant propane and its price differential with propylene, effectively meets global propylene demand. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations due to dwindling petroleum resources, ensuring sufficient supply, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, reducing costs and enhancing sustainability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand amidst conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-activity catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior method for meeting the global demand for propylene compared to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, and unlike oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2), it avoids overoxidation risks. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future PDH catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen production, effectively addressing global demand and conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, enhances process efficiency and product selectivity in propylene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. Zinc's potential as an earth-abundant, non-toxic catalyst further solidifies PDH's role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, PDH catalysts, without noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration. ZnO-based catalysts enhance PDH's environmental compatibility and efficiency, demonstrating a threefold increase in propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct propane-to-propylene conversion is more efficient than conventional methods, addressing their energy-intensive nature. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances product selectivity, making it a superior choice in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, and sustainably taps into shale gas resources. PDH is cost-effective, enhancing propylene yields and selectively activating CH bonds for increased production, effectively addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering superior feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to steam cracking and FCC processes, making it a leading solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boosts propylene production with higher efficiency and reduced CO2/NOx emissions, addressing conventional method limitations. Its direct propane-to-propylene conversion ensures superior selectivity, meeting global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability. It notably reduces issues of coke formation and sintering, surpassing energy-intensive and CO2-emitting conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, thriving in shale gas-rich areas, minimizes oil-based feedstock dependence, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. Its competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity make it a leading solution to meet global propylene demand, effectively addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the 2020 global demand for 116 million tons of propylene, PDH technology emerges as a superior production method. It excels in feedstock optimization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it cost-effective and environmentally friendly for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, leveraging abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers key advantages over traditional propylene production methods: better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt-based catalysts, offers superior propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an efficient and eco-friendly solution for the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in meeting global propylene demand, offering improved feedstock efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, overcoming conventional method limitations. Research on anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts boosts PDH's viability, enabling cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, distinguishing it as a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity and process efficiency, particularly where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with their onstream stability and high selectivity, address the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH an attractive alternative to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boosts efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, minimizing by-products. It overcomes constraints of fossil energy-dependent processes like naphtha steam cracking, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Conventional processes face limitations due to Cr toxicity and high Pt catalyst costs, whereas cobalt's earth abundance in PDH catalysts suggests long-term viability and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, efficiently addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and environmental impact challenges. It bypasses energy-intensive steps, optimizing resource use and reducing environmental footprint compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers a retrofit-friendly solution, avoiding significant investment. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing conventional method challenges, making it a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply and higher yields with fewer byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and cost-effective, making it a sustainable choice that overcomes limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundance of shale and natural gas to produce propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy-intensive nature and tendency for cracking at high temperatures, PDH's challenges are mitigated through the effective active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, offers cost-effective, nontoxic, and enhanced catalytic activity for propylene production. It leverages abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, effectively addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a targeted solution for propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' fossil fuel dependency, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. As a dedicated process, PDH focuses solely on propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon outputs. The advent of fracking has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, highly affordable. PDH plants' flexibility and the widening price gap between propylene and propane, coupled with a growing market, make PDH a highly profitable choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs efficient catalysts like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, thus outperforming conventional methods in meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process (Quote 3), efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal conversion rates with optimized conditions and suitable catalysts (Quote 4). Its key advantages include enhanced product selectivity and the ability to increase propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, effectively reducing costs (Quote 6). PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates, and minimizing by-product formation, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective alternative to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation pathways. Leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a viable and advantageous method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, which reduces costs and environmental impact, making it a sustainable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, meets growing propylene demand efficiently. It operates at milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it a promising solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It capitalizes on abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, operating under atmospheric pressure for enhanced efficiency. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use distinct catalysts and pressures, addressing catalyst deactivation and stability challenges. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost propane, focuses on optimizing indium-based catalysts for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research aims to enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Oleflex and Catofin catalysts, effectively tackles the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas. However, high Pt costs and Cr toxicity in these catalysts pose limitations, underscoring the need for more eco-friendly and cost-effective alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and cuts costs, focusing on propane conversion for increased yields and potentially lower expenses, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant propane, enhancing efficiency, and boosting product selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution, especially in shale gas-rich regions. This results in a cleaner, targeted production process, better aligning with demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, noted for its high product selectivity in direct propylene production, is pivotal in addressing the growing global demand for propylene. The availability of abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to advancements in shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing, ensures a steady supply for PDH processes. With an annual growth forecast of 2-3% in propylene demand until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial in meeting this increasing need, making it a promising solution compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages. Enhanced fracking techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, leading to a U.S. shift from naphtha to abundant, cheaper ethane for steam cracking. However, this primarily boosts ethylene production, causing a propylene supply drop and price increase. PDH benefits from the propane-propylene price gap, making it profitable. Unlike conventional methods, PDH exclusively produces polymer-quality olefins, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability and showcasing enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, making it pivotal in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers enhanced efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology boasts high propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, outperforming conventional methods. With abundant, lower-cost propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane exclusively to produce propylene, addresses the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods by leveraging abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas. Its competitive edge, with lower production costs and a wide source of raw materials, makes PDH ideal for meeting escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields and activity, addressing conventional production challenges. It enhances efficiency and selectivity through nanostructured catalysts, improving adsorption of propyl intermediates, especially at high temperatures where selectivity is typically restricted.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing dwindling fossil oil resources and growing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, making it economically viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading alternative for propylene production, offers economic and process efficiency benefits, directly addressing challenges posed by conventional methods. It converts propane to propylene, providing an economical route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature requirement facilitates side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the equilibrium-limited nature of the PDH process, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency benefits over oil-based methods, addressing sustainability and growing in its contribution to propylene production [1][2]. Conventional CrOx or Pt catalysts have health and cost drawbacks [3][4][5][6], but recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges [7].", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting global propylene demand, excelling in efficiency and selectivity. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, distinguishing itself from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost-effective, high-efficiency, and selective propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regenerative properties, are optimal for PDH, an on-purpose non-oxidative process. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology utilizes abundant propane and the significant price differential between propane and propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without depending on dwindling oil reserves, offering a viable alternative to traditional processes that struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-performance catalysts, optimizes propylene production, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to meet escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts and addressing conventional production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, avoids coke formation, and improves selectivity. ODH-O2, using boron-based catalysts, shows promise but faces overoxidation issues. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing, satisfying green chemistry principles and offering a sustainable alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, ensures high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing global demand. This eco-friendly, cost-efficient process, highlighted by the availability of propane feedstock, offers a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc as a catalyst, addresses global propylene demand by offering superior process efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst exemplifies this with high dehydrogenation activity and achieving 97% propylene selectivity, underscoring its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using eco-friendly and cost-effective catalysts, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, making it a promising solution for propylene production. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene and overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It avoids the use of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, making it environmentally superior. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's environmental compatibility and performance, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, directly converts propane to propylene, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity. This non-oxidative process addresses conventional method limitations, providing a stable, cost-effective solution to meet escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it more sustainable and cost-effective, especially through the utilization of shale gas resources, potentially yielding higher propylene selectivity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offers a feedstock-independent alternative to traditional processes. It enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process optimization, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. It leverages propane for a stable feedstock supply, unlike conventional methods that depend on scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting fewer pollutants, and has superior selectivity for propylene, making it an eco-friendly and productive choice. This addresses the limitations of conventional processes, which are energy-intensive and produce higher emissions of CO2 and NOx.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, offers economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, which reduces catalyst deactivation. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, excels in propylene production with improved efficiency and selectivity. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, pivotal to PDH, offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, overcoming conventional methods' limitations regarding cost, toxicity, and feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method, offering cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over alternatives like MTP and WGSR. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene, solidifying PDH's role in meeting demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene, addressing growing demand. It offers improved feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a selective PDH catalyst further boosts efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, excelling in CH bond activation and reactive longevity with reduced environmental impact. Notably, Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels over conventional methods by offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, though common, need enhancement for better stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential for optimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, meets growing propylene demand by efficiently converting propane at high temperatures. Its use of shale gas highlights advantages in feedstock availability and product selectivity. Stable, anti-sintering catalysts are crucial for improved efficiency, addressing challenges with Pt-based catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, boasting high selectivity and onstream stability. This makes it an attractive alternative in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers enhanced efficiency and lower by-product generation, making it a sustainable solution for increasing propylene production. This addresses conventional methods' limitations, ensuring selectivity and meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, excels in propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high selectivity, efficiently converting propane while offering superior resource utilization and a reduced environmental footprint compared to conventional methods, making it a viable solution for global propylene demand, especially in tackling feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging affordable propane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a viable solution to meet escalating global propylene demand. It utilizes existing facilities, enhancing its practicality and addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply and higher yields through simplified separation processes, making it a cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite high energy demands and selectivity hurdles, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates cracking and deep dehydrogenation, as evidenced by advancements in the field, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in meeting global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity. Its superiority over conventional methods is bolstered by the addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, enhancing catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by utilizing cheap propane-rich shale gas, made possible by fracking. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price difference between propylene and propane, and the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability. Its ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost process efficiency and product selectivity, yielding high-quality propylene with stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, noted for its atom-economy, converts propane directly to propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH ensures high conversion rates and feedstock availability, reducing equipment and operation costs, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to conventional methods. It leverages abundant shale gas and offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, distinguishing it from pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Efficient activation of the CH bond in PDH is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower production costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane, excels in high propylene yields with reduced byproducts. Its milder conditions enhance efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing conventional method limitations. PDH's direct propane-to-propylene conversion minimizes energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, offering a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its ability to address challenges faced by conventional methods, including steady propane supply from natural gas production, simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology, driven by global propylene demand and cost-effective shale gas-derived propane, highlights its high stability and selectivity, particularly with indium-based catalysts, surpassing conventional methods. Ongoing research aims to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, addressing traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging abundant propane reserves. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. The development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is a key focus to further enhance PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers superior propylene selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods, making it cost-effective and sustainable. It simplifies the process, targets higher yields, and is ideal for regions with ample propane, addressing global propylene demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to directly produce high-value propylene with higher efficiency and selectivity, targeting propane conversion with minimal by-product formation, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for direct propylene production, offers enhanced selectivity by producing propylene without byproducts. The advent of hydraulic fracturing has made shale gas condensates, rich in propane, easily extractable, ensuring a plentiful and cost-effective feedstock. With propylene demand projected to grow at 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial in meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages in addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas's cost-effective extraction has shifted feedstock preference from naphtha to ethane, impacting propylene supply and prices. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price difference, benefits from current market conditions. Its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, unlike conventional methods that produce mixed products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting abundant propane to propylene, addresses feedstock availability challenges. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, particularly with CoSiBeta catalysts, outperforming conventional methods. PDH uses green, low-priced catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, enhancing efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods and ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, directly addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's active Co species and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing inefficiencies of conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant propane, PDH ensures efficient production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock for propylene production, offers a competitive edge by addressing the limitations of traditional methods. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective supply. PDH's streamlined process, with a single product focus, wide raw material availability, and lower production costs, directly tackles the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers key advantages in propylene production, notably in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically advantageous for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity. It enhances feedstock availability by utilizing propane, improves process efficiency, and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, thus addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical. It directly converts propane to propylene more economically than conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency. However, PDH is endothermic and requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, addresses environmental concerns over oil-based methods and is increasingly pivotal in propylene production. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and cost, are mitigated by recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, for high propane dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in managing feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a leading method for on-purpose propylene production. It effectively addresses the high demand for propylene, offering superior product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock limitations and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, make PDH superior to conventional methods, ensuring high efficiency and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap to propylene, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional methods that struggle with petroleum depletion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for propylene production, boasting higher efficiency and selectivity with minimal byproducts. Its modular design facilitates flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH offers lower energy consumption and higher yields, making it economically and environmentally superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, tackling the endothermic reaction's high-temperature requirement. This makes PDH a promising method, improving on conventional production's limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and offering improved selectivity to propene. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, reduces coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements to ensure sustainability and transform propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers eco-friendly, high-selectivity propylene production with valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt-, Cr-, and notably Zn@S-1 catalysts, efficiently meets the rising global demand for propylene. It offers a non-petroleum-based alternative with high propylene selectivity, dehydrogenation activity, and regeneration capability, making it an environmentally friendly process that overcomes conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a nitrogen-doped carbon encapsulated catalyst, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing propylene production challenges. The catalyst controls ZnO NP size, preventing high-temperature loss, and achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating PDH's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. ZnO-based catalysts enhance PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as demonstrated under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable, cost-effective propane supply, directly converting it to propylene with high efficiency. This process consumes less energy, enhancing product selectivity and narrowing the propene demand-supply gap, making PDH an efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from sources like shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher outputs than traditional methods, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative route that bypasses traditional feedstock-dependent processes. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas, offers superior feedstock availability, enhanced process efficiency, and high product selectivity for propylene production. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by being more energy-efficient and eco-friendly, with lower CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's ability to minimize byproducts makes it ideal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial chemical raw material used in various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, reducing catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, diminishes oil reliance and uses vanadium oxide catalysts for enhanced reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration, making it a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution for global propylene demand, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2020 global propylene demand of 116 million tons, PDH technology stands out as the most promising production method. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming MTP and WGSR. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced propane conversion from shale gas, further solidifying PDH's position as a leading solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its key advantages over conventional methods include superior feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity. An advanced catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds over CC bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH further boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, encounters challenges with Pt-based catalysts, noted for short-term stability and inadequate propylene selectivity, as per the quote.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, meets global propylene demand by offering advantages in feedstock availability and product selectivity over conventional methods. Its endothermic process leverages shale gas resources, addressing limitations faced by traditional production. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH's resource utilization provides a significant edge in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for enhanced onstream stability and high selectivity, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, offering improved process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its abundant propane feedstock and reduced by-products, efficiently addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods like naphtha steam cracking. It offers improved process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, tapping into shale gas reserves, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations, notably the toxicity of Cr and high Pt costs in catalysts, by utilizing earth-abundant Co-based catalysts, ensuring long-term viability and efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene addresses feedstock and product selectivity challenges. By enhancing resource use and reducing environmental impact, PDH efficiently meets global propylene demand, bypassing energy-intensive processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane from various petrochemical processes, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities effectively addresses the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers stable, efficient, and selective propylene production, minimizing byproducts and costs relative to steam cracking. This sustainable method optimizes resource use and simplifies production, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, fueled by the shift to abundant light alkanes from naphtha, offers a solution to the challenges of conventional propylene production. Despite high energy demands and selectivity issues at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates cracking and deep dehydrogenation, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, excels in propene conversion and selectivity under mild conditions, overcoming conventional production hurdles. Zinc-based catalysts, cost-effective and non-toxic, outperform alternatives. Incorporating Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite significantly enhances catalytic activity and stability, reinforcing PDH's efficiency and suitability for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a targeted process for propylene production, enhancing selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent and emit CO2. PDH benefits from cheap propane feedstocks, made possible by fracking technology, making it economically viable and highly profitable, especially considering the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane for feedstock security, employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and selectivity, thus improving process efficiency and propylene yield, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in research and industry, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its atom-economic reaction, despite being endothermic, is optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by increasing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, utilizing abundant propane feedstock to achieve high conversion rates and maintain high propylene yield with low by-product formation, overcoming conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It serves as an effective supplement, leveraging the abundant alkanes in shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties ensure high efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from propane, boasting higher selectivity and increased yields. By utilizing abundant propane sources, it enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand, particularly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, operates under milder conditions for high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance selectivity, and direct propane conversion boosts efficiency, potentially lowering greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundant propane from shale gas for a steady feedstock, operates under atmospheric pressure for enhanced efficiency, and offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It specifically addresses challenges by avoiding deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring superior selectivity for propylene compared to oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Catalysts, including indium-based and nanocarbon, highlight PDH's promise in addressing propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Oleflex and Catofin processes, is a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand. It leverages abundant propane reserves, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, high Pt and Cr costs and toxicity limit its full potential, highlighting the need for more cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor design enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it sustainable and cost-effective. PDH's energy efficiency and targeted propane conversion result in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, directly addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently converts low-value feedstock into high-value propylene, addressing global demand sustainably and cost-effectively. Its high efficiency and selectivity minimize by-products, offering a cleaner, targeted production process that mitigates environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock plentiful and cost-effective, enhancing PDH's exclusive production of propylene, not hybrid products, thus improving selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow annually, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a solution, leveraging advancements in fracking to unlock abundant shale gas, slashing feedstock costs. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has curtailed propylene output, driving up its price and PDH's profitability, which hinges on the propane-propylene price gap. PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed-product conventional methods, making it a compelling choice in today's market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting abundant propane to propylene, addresses feedstock availability. It excels in catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly with the CoSiBeta catalyst, which boosts process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful supported CrOx and Pt catalysts prone to rapid deactivation, PDH's pursuit of a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene tackles product selectivity and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, avoids overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, effectively addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, directly addressing conventional method limitations in process efficiency and product selectivity. The enhanced Co species and surface acid property, due to Ti, contribute to superior selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-efficient solution to meet escalating global demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant light alkanes from shale gas, offers single-feedstock simplicity and single-product efficiency, addressing feedstock availability and cost challenges. Its competitive edge in propylene production, with lower costs and a focus on propane as feed and propylene as the sole product, makes it a viable solution to meet growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing global demand. Despite being endothermic and facing issues like coking and sintering, advancements in nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive solution for propylene production, converting propane directly into propene with high selectivity. By utilizing abundant propane feedstock, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity without intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene amidst decreasing fossil oil resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently addresses the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical used in diverse products. As an economical and direct conversion route from propane, PDH overcomes the limitations of conventional methods that rely on dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially viable through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH is the most cost-effective for propylene production. However, the process's high endothermic nature and equilibrium limitations necessitate temperatures above 550°C, which can lead to cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking and addresses feedstock limitations. Its contribution to propylene production is increasing with new plants under construction. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and suffer from deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, which show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It ensures a quality propylene supply, recognized as the most efficient process for large-scale demand, meeting the rising global need without compromise.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and reduces capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, with high activity and regeneration ability, specifically address limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and the significant price differential with propylene, overcomes the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures a sufficient propylene supply, independent of dwindling petroleum reserves, effectively meeting escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, utilizing high-activity catalysts for high yields, thus overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses challenges in conventional propylene production by offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It can utilize renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation issues. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents coke but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements to address scarcity. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently meets global propylene demand with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and offering eco-friendly, cost-efficient production over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a superior method for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Zinc, as a catalyst alternative, tackles scarcity and toxicity issues. Notably, Zn@S-1 catalysts achieve 97% propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's efficiency and selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing its efficiency and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant feedstocks like natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective propylene production method. It directly converts propane to propylene efficiently, overcoming the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and narrowing the demand-supply gap. PDH's non-oxidative route boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading technology in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, improving efficiency and selectivity, especially when using shale gas resources. PDH potentially achieves higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering a selective alternative to traditional processes. It overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process limitations, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a superior solution, leveraging abundant propane feedstock for enhanced availability. It directly converts propane to propylene with high efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing the environmental concerns and high energy consumption of traditional processes. This method minimizes byproducts, offering a more sustainable and efficient alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive naphtha cracking. It boasts high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively tackling common catalyst deactivation issues, thus making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing vanadium oxide catalysts, boosts feedstock availability, particularly in shale gas-rich areas, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This results in competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, noted for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, is pivotal in meeting the high global demand for propylene, which stood at 116 million tons in 2020. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced propane conversion, making PDH a leading solution for challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, ensures superior feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a robust solution for the escalating global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, surpassing conventional methods. PDH also offers environmental benefits and efficient CH bond activation, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes conventional method limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It faces challenges with coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, improve PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, directly and efficiently produces propylene from propane, addressing global demand. These catalysts ensure onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH a superior alternative that tackles conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes abundant feedstock and generates fewer by-products, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology, utilizing shale-gas-derived propane, emerges as a solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and Co's abundance, offer a sustainable PDH alternative, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and efficient resource use, which addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its reduced environmental impact makes it superior to traditional methods, avoiding energy-intensive processes with lower yields, thus directly tackling the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane, excels in propylene selectivity and efficiency, directly tackling limitations of conventional methods, making it a prime solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers superior efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It overcomes feedstock scarcity, boosts process efficiency, and enhances product selectivity. Compared to conventional methods, PDH is more sustainable and economically viable, featuring higher propylene yields and reduced byproduct formation, making it a suitable solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, spurred by the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and increased natural gas, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite high energy demands and temperatures that can cause cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, optimized for cost-effectiveness and stability, amplify PDH's superiority over conventional methods, specifically tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its propylene specificity, avoiding the low selectivity issues of fossil fuel-dependent methods. Its profitability is enhanced by cheap feedstocks from fracking technology, and PDH plants' adaptability offers operational flexibility. This makes PDH a leading choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thus improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a recent focus, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand (Quote 3). Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal outcomes, offsetting high energy consumption (Quote 4). Increased propane conversion reduces costs, a key to minimizing equipment investment and operation expenses (Quote 6). Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring practical relevance (Quote 9). PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, serving as a vital supplement to conventional production methods. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike alternative pathways, makes it advantageous, especially considering the large-scale exploitation of shale gas. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by offering a thermodynamically limited, endothermic process. Efficient catalysts are critical for high selectivity toward olefins, particularly in PDH, given propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane, offering higher propene selectivity for increased yields and reduced costs. This method is environmentally friendly, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene while overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproduct formation. Lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, operating under atmospheric pressure for energy efficiency. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, enhancing efficiency. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specific catalysts and pressures, with Catofin at low pressure, Oleflex at 13 bar, and STAR at 56 bar. Research focuses on improving catalyst resistance to coke and preventing active site aggregation, addressing PDH's key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional production challenges and meeting market demands, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology, represented by Oleflex and Catofin, leverages abundant shale-gas derived propane for efficient production. This addresses conventional method limitations by optimizing feedstock use and process efficiency. The need for more cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts underscores ongoing PDH technology advancements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, offers greater availability and stability compared to conventional naphtha and heavy oil methods. It's more energy-efficient, has higher propylene selectivity, and simplifies the process, making it cost-effective, especially in regions with abundant propane, addressing the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, especially from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global propylene demand. It directly utilizes abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability compared to conventional methods. PDH boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by producing propylene exclusively and optimizing selectivity, directly addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, reducing feedstock costs. PDH's advantages, including byproduct-free production, make it a promising solution to conventional production challenges, crucial as propylene demand is forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035 by The Dow Chemical Company.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging advancements in hydraulic fracturing that have slashed gas costs and made shale gas a prime feedstock (Quote 2, 3). The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, driving up its price (Quote 5). PDH, an on-purpose technique, exclusively yields propylene of polymer-quality purity (Quote 7), proving highly profitable under current market conditions where the price difference between propane and propylene is favorable (Quote 6).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH employs a green, affordable catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, addressing environmental concerns and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently inhibits overoxidation, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. This makes PDH a promising method for propylene production, potentially offering better feedstock availability than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet global propylene demand, thereby addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    