Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effective raw material supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive alternative to traditional naphtha and coal methods, which struggle to meet growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but requires high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its economic competitiveness, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the need for intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative route amid dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH directly converts propane to propylene. However, its highly endothermic nature requires high temperatures, promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, including CrOx and Pt species, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, have been developed to address these issues, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity in propylene production, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Previously, naphtha crackers balanced the industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, but the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas disrupted this balance, necessitating on-purpose methods for propylene. PDH emerges as a key solution, offering advantages in process efficiency and selectivity, and is well-suited to handle the large-scale production required.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted in literature, are highly active and selective for propylene with good regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH, which is an efficient and cost-effective alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is recognized as a highly effective method for production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price differential between propane and propylene. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without reliance on dwindling oil, making it a promising solution for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more economically and environmentally viable option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to the growing demand for propene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by requiring high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, which needs high temperatures to achieve high yields, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents coke but may overoxidize, limiting propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally beneficial, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation and consider more abundant catalytic elements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas as a cheap feedstock, achieving high selectivity to propylene, and producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient method is a preferred alternative to conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and product selectivity. The availability of propane from shale gas and PDH's high selectivity to propylene, with hydrogen as a by-product, make it a promising solution to the supply-demand gap in the propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts have led to the exploration of alternative, non-toxic, and earth-abundant metals like zinc. Zn@S-1 catalysts show good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of PDH to meet growing global demand for propylene with improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability through the use of cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. The encapsulation of nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support controls the size of ZnO nanoparticles, preventing their loss at high temperatures. This results in high PDH performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours on stream, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the demand-supply gap of propene. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient and selective, making it an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in meeting the growing global demand for propylene by addressing limitations of conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH may offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by using abundant propane feedstock, improving energy efficiency, and reducing CO2 and NOx emissions. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH's reliance on propane ensures better feedstock availability, especially from natural gas sources. This process is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, with higher selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, mitigating coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it reduces reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, with supported vanadium oxide catalysts achieving better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in traditional plants. This results in competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional methods due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing technology have further promoted the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene through the extraction of abundant shale gas, reinforcing PDH's position as a leading process.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs due to shale gas use, and a more efficient process. The development of an active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH is crucial for enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the heavy demand in the feedstock market. It offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, despite its challenges with high-temperature requirements for propane conversion and catalyst deactivation, is advantageous for propylene production. It particularly excels in utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offering a solution to feedstock availability. The need for stable, anti-sintering catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without regeneration highlights ongoing research to enhance PDH efficiency. Renewed interest in PDH stems from its potential to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially as demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show promise with good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing conventional method challenges by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology is gaining attention for its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it a promising solution. Propylene, a key chemical precursor, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demand. PDH's efficiency and selectivity, coupled with its ability to utilize abundant feedstock, address these issues, offering a viable alternative to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the shale-gas-driven increase in propane reserves, PDH technology is gaining attention. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting industry growth. The urgent need for new catalysts is met by cobalt-based alternatives, promising long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, making PDH a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity in converting widely available propane directly into propylene. This process is more efficient and resource-friendly than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and have lower yields. PDH's advantages include better environmental impact and resource utilization, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, enhancing process efficiency and selectivity. It leverages existing facilities, reducing investment needs, and addresses conventional method limitations, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This makes PDH a sustainable and economically viable option, with higher yields and reduced byproducts compared to traditional methods like steam cracking, thus effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propene. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, provide cost-effective and nontoxic alternatives, improving catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have low selectivity and high fossil fuel dependency. PDH's efficiency and adaptability, coupled with the affordability of propane-rich shale gas due to fracking, make it highly profitable. The growing demand for propylene and the price differential between propylene and propane further enhance PDH's economic appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, which addresses availability issues. Efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 exhibit high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, both high-value products. Despite thermodynamic limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing single-pass propane conversion through elevated temperatures and reduced pressures. This process specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global olefin demands. It leverages the abundant shale gas, offering exclusive olefin selectivity over MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and efficiency make it superior to conventional SC and FCC methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The technology's ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks addresses these issues, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional method challenges. It boasts higher selectivity to propene, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing widely available propane, PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer high selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low activity to CC cleavage. This results in high product selectivity and improved process efficiency due to lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes propane, an abundant feedstock from natural gas and shale gas production, ensuring steady supply. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with current technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts but face challenges with deactivation and stability. Despite these, PDH remains a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, are gaining prominence for propylene production, driven by the global demand and low-cost propane from shale gas. Despite drawbacks like high Pt costs and Cr's environmental impact, PDH's potential is underscored by the investigation of indium-based catalysts for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, highlighting efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have increased interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, with its Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers a promising alternative to conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt in Oleflex and toxicity of Cr in Catofin catalysts limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several advantages over conventional production methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a more sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods that rely on heavier hydrocarbon feedstocks and produce a wider range of products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane from shale gas into propylene, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution. PDH exhibits higher efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted process. This technology is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas resources, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing global demand challenges. It produces only propylene, enhancing product selectivity, and benefits from abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock due to hydraulic fracturing advancements. Forecasted demand for propylene is set to grow 2-3% annually by 2035, underscoring PDH's importance in meeting this need efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking technologies have significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals and transportation fuels. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current price gap between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, making it a favorable choice in the current market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of the CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. (1) Shale gas extraction provides cheap propane for PDH. (2) PDH avoids overoxidation issues seen in ODH. (3) PDH's high selectivity for propylene sets it apart from hybrid MTO and FTO products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the high energy consumption and low selectivity issues of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of a single feedstock, propane, and single product, propylene, enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effective raw material supply. PDH's lower production costs and simplified process make it a competitive choice over traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. It operates at high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, impacting efficiency and selectivity. Nanostructured catalysts, by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption, improve these aspects, making PDH advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and cheaper propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing propane, an important raw material, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing the need for dwindling petroleum resources. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Addressing these challenges is critical for the industrial success of PDH in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering leading to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced the industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, but the surge in ethylene from natural gas and shale gas has disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating dedicated methods for propylene production. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene, effectively tackles the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key player in the propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high process efficiency with a notable conversion rate, and high selectivity that minimizes by-products. Its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency and low-cost alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in meeting growing global demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources. Unlike traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC, PDH can produce sufficient propylene, essential for synthesizing high-valued chemical products such as polypropylene, acrylic acid, and acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing reliance on expensive and scarce naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, unlike multi-step conventional methods. This results in lower energy consumption and higher yields, making PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. Its modular plant design allows for flexible, localized production, advantageous in areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its ability to address the challenges of conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The growing demand for propene necessitates the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation. The endothermic nature of the PDH reaction requires high temperatures to achieve high yields, highlighting its efficiency and adaptability in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active catalysts, typically Pt or Cr based. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by utilizing renewable green propane, which is gaining traction as a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids the coke formation issues seen in non-oxidative processes, while oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) offer additional benefits but face limitations in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activation in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize more abundant catalytic elements and lower energy routes to propene, transforming the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the gap between supply and demand. It leverages abundant shale gas as a cheap feedstock, offering high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of such catalysts for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, the catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating the technology's promise in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and offers product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often result in a supply-demand gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has become an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH can potentially offer higher propylene yields and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH specifically addresses challenges by providing a route that enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it an ideal solution for meeting the growing global demand. Unlike traditional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. The process is also more sustainable, consuming less energy and producing fewer emissions. Additionally, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, offering superior product selectivity compared to complex traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, surpassing traditional methods that require high energy and produce significant CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability over conventional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in traditional plants, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These benefits contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a leading technology for its production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, a key industrial component, saw demand soar, prompting attention to various production techniques including methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). However, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, underscoring PDH's role in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers advantages in feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active and selective catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the heavy demand in the feedstock market. It offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. PDH efficiently activates CH bonds, ensures longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH is poised to address the global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, hindering efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses global propylene demand by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are desired for stability during cyclic coke combustion. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas for propylene production highlights its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propylene production, particularly due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. This suggests PDH offers a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane, potentially improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production is gaining prominence due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it superior to conventional naphtha steam cracking methods. As a crucial component in the production of various chemicals, propylene's demand is increasing, and PDH effectively meets this demand by offering a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a viable alternative, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term sustainability for the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, which can be sourced from various petrochemical processes. It offers the benefit of easy retrofitting into existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by providing higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene production, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically viable option. PDH's energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity streamline the production process, reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks and enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, facilitated by shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional method challenges, notably feedstock availability. PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures, while necessary, pose selectivity and stability issues, leading to cracking and coking. Active site isolation effectively tackles these challenges, enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, utilizing non-noble zinc-based catalysts for cost-effectiveness and nontoxicity. This technology specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely cheap. PDH factories' adjustability and the growing propylene market, combined with the price difference between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, offers an atom-economic reaction converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. While limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion. PDH, though energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion through strategies like temperature increase and pressure adjustments. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its exclusive selectivity to olefins, surpassing pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It leverages the abundant shale gas feedstock, offering a solution to growing global olefin demands. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties ensure process efficiency, unlike conventional SC and FCC methods. Efficient catalysts are essential for PDH, ensuring high selectivity towards olefins by activating the CH bond while suppressing CC cleavage.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's higher selectivity to propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing widely available propane, PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer high propylene selectivity and low activity to CC cleavage. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional processes. It utilizes propane, an abundant feedstock from natural gas and shale gas production, ensuring steady supply. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specific catalysts for efficiency, but deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies are being optimized to address conventional method challenges, focusing on indium-based catalysts for their high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to improve PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, notably the Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers a promising solution to the limitations of conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr catalysts in these processes pose significant barriers, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. It utilizes abundant propane as a feedstock, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. PDH's single-reactor process simplifies operations, reducing costs and making it a sustainable, cost-effective option. This technology targets propane conversion, potentially lowering operating costs and addressing the global demand for propylene more efficiently than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane as a feedstock, offering greater feedstock availability. It also boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This makes PDH a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner option, especially in shale gas-rich regions, effectively meeting the increasing demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It excels by producing propylene exclusively, enhancing product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective, a key advantage over conventional methods. PDH's ability to inhibit side reactions boosts propylene selectivity and productivity. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price differential between propane and propylene, currently favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins, like propylene, with polymer-quality purity, offering an advantage over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. It demonstrates improved process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly due to the high catalytic activity of the CoSiBeta catalyst. While conventional methods face issues with high-cost, environmental impact, and deactivation of catalysts, PDH aims to address these challenges, especially in product selectivity and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's commitment to overcoming limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas-derived propane, which ensures feedstock availability. It also avoids overoxidation issues seen in ODH, boosting process efficiency. Moreover, PDH's high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from other processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances non-noble metal Co-based catalysts' performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. This addresses challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the challenges of conventional methods. With the abundance and lower cost of propane due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH becomes a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and adaptability to feedstock changes make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods that relied on naphtha and coal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but requires high temperatures, causing coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by directly converting propane, an abundant feedstock, into propene without intermediate steps or undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and process efficiency advantages over conventional methods. As a direct conversion process from propane, PDH is commercially viable and less dependent on dwindling petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH leads to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It offers advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene. PDH specifically tackles the issue of feedstock availability, as the balance previously maintained by naphtha crackers has been disrupted by the availability of ethylene from ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas. This disruption necessitates on-purpose methods for propylene production, with PDH highlighted as a solution that can address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted in the literature, are highly active and selective for propylene, with good regeneration ability, making PDH a high-efficiency and low-cost alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on dwindling oil, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs, making PDH economically and environmentally viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in addressing the growing global demand for propylene, particularly due to its ability to operate under high temperatures necessary for high yields. The endothermic nature of the PDH reaction underscores the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, which are critical for enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. PDH uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, is promising but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally beneficial, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with green propane, can transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and supply gap. It utilizes cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as an earth-abundant, non-toxic alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts show good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating potential for industrial PDH processes. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in its catalysts. This approach, involving encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieves propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock for stable and cheap propane supply. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, making it an emerging and more efficient technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. It potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH is more energy-efficient, produces less CO2 and NOx emissions, and has higher selectivity for propylene. This makes PDH a sustainable and attractive alternative to meet the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it uses propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and lower toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional techniques like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it a preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, utilizing abundant shale gas to boost propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the growing global demand for propylene, but Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in the process, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, impacting process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production. Supported Pt-based catalysts are active but prone to deactivation by coke, necessitating frequent regeneration, which can lead to catalyst sintering. Stable, anti-sintering Pt catalysts are desired to withstand cyclic coke combustion without regeneration. PDH's renewed interest stems from its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources, addressing feedstock availability challenges and potentially improving process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, particularly due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, addressing challenges of conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene. This highlights PDH technology as a promising approach to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, making it a promising solution. Propylene, a crucial chemical component, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle with fossil energy consumption and cannot meet increasing demands. PDH's benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity directly address these issues, offering a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional methods face challenges due to the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum, which limit their scalability. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a solution, with their earth abundance suggesting long-term viability. This addresses the urgent need for new catalysts in the PDH industry, making it a more sustainable and efficient option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes like steam cracking, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, easily retrofitting existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods in light of growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially as feedstock shifts from naphtha to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and presenting selectivity and stability issues, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these challenges, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing global demand and conventional method limitations. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, using cost-effective and nontoxic zinc-based catalysts enhanced with moderate Ni for improved activity and stability. This technology specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have low selectivity and high CO2 emissions. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity and yield, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent research and commercial application, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic reaction, despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, can closely approach ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures can improve conversion. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. Catalysts with practical engineering performance are essential. PDH's use of propane as feedstock, high conversion rates, and selectivity address conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over conventional SC and FCC methods. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity towards olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers higher selectivity, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, by utilizing propane from natural gas, refinery off-gases, and petrochemical processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "The growing demand for propylene and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas have highlighted PDH as a superior propylene production method. PDH uses propane, widely sourced from natural gas and refinery off-gases, addressing feedstock availability. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH's use of Pt-based catalysts boosts propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it a more selective and efficient process. The process operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods requiring higher pressures.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, notably using indium-based catalysts, is advantageous for meeting growing global propylene demand due to its potential for high stability and selectivity. The low cost of propane from shale gas has renewed interest in PDH, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods that face challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to improve PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, face restrictions due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts. This aligns with the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, which have limitations. PDH uses abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. It simplifies the process with a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in regions with ample propane supply, addressing global demand for propylene more effectively than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering higher process efficiency, and achieving greater product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted conversion process results in minimal by-product production, meeting growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. It produces propylene exclusively, enhancing product selectivity, and benefits from abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. Propylene demand is projected to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the significance of PDH's efficiency and selectivity in meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, driving up prices and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, specifically propylene, making it a favorable choice in the current market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH indicate superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to enhanced performance and anti-coke stability, suggesting an advantage over conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and efficiency make it competitive, addressing challenges faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but requires high temperatures, causing issues like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, improve efficiency and selectivity, making PDH advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not dependent on scarce petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest route, as highlighted in commercially available processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, particularly improving catalyst efficiency with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its efficiency in meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges posed by conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock. It boasts high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene and high selectivity, minimizing by-product formation. PDH's modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH an efficient and cost-effective alternative to traditional production routes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in meeting growing demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources. Unlike conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply, making it a viable solution to the limitations posed by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes widely available propane from shale gas production, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. This results in lower operating costs and higher yields, making PDH economically and environmentally viable. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The endothermic nature of the PDH reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically over Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing global propylene demand by using renewable green propane, a sustainable feedstock. It avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH, and overoxidation issues seen in ODH-O2, which uses promising boron-based catalysts. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, focusing on abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It leverages widely available cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst, especially in the form of Zn@S-1, which exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability. This demonstrates PDH's potential to improve process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Environment-friendly and cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, demonstrating three times higher output at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cost-effective propane feedstock. PDH directly converts propane to propylene efficiently, addressing the energy-intensive and demand-supply gap issues of conventional methods. Its non-oxidative route offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, making it an emerging technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional processes. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike the oil-based feedstocks of traditional methods, improving availability. PDH is more energy-efficient and produces fewer CO2 and NOx emissions, making it environmentally friendlier. It also has higher product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. These benefits make PDH a sustainable and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial chemical raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus reducing catalyst deactivation compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a cost-effective and environmentally sound pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further promoted the conversion of low-valued propane through abundant shale gas extraction, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It directly produces propylene, offering better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of an active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH is crucial for further improving its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising propylene demand, though Pt-based catalysts have stability and selectivity issues. This highlights PDH's potential while acknowledging catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It leverages abundant shale gas resources, offering an advantage in feedstock availability. The demand for stable, anti-sintering catalysts that resist deactivation under PDH conditions underscores its focus on process efficiency and product selectivity. Despite the thermodynamic inevitability of coke deposition, PDH's ability to utilize shale gas for propylene production highlights its potential in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, particularly when steam cracking cannot meet the growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane show good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH may offer improved process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. The development of these catalysts addresses the challenges of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation. As a key chemical precursor, propylene's demand is increasing, and conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking are becoming insufficient. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a superior alternative, addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increasing propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which suffer from the toxicity of Cr-based catalysts and the high cost of Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a viable alternative, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term sustainability for the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity in converting widely available propane directly into propylene. This process is more efficient and environmentally friendly than conventional methods, which are more energy-intensive and have lower yields. PDH's resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact make it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, easy retrofitting of existing facilities, and higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's energy intensity and high reaction temperatures pose challenges for selectivity and catalyst stability, leading to side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation. The active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing PDH's viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by moderate Ni, improve catalytic activity and stability, further optimizing the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from the low cost of propane-rich shale gas, a byproduct of fracking, ensuring abundant and affordable feedstock. Its adjustable factories can run various reactions, enhancing efficiency. The technology's profitability is underscored by the widening price gap between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock from hydraulic fracturing, which addresses availability issues. A ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 demonstrates high efficiency, stability, and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal performance. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion, reducing costs. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion with unselective thermal reactions. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher propene selectivity, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for propylene production. PDH utilizes widely available propane as feedstock, offering high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, making it more efficient and selective than conventional steam cracking. It operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene ensures high product selectivity and minimal formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Propane, abundant from natural gas and shale gas, serves as a steady and economical feedstock. PDH offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but efforts are made to improve stability. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, particularly those using indium-based catalysts, are being investigated for their potential high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to improve PDH technology, making it a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits highlight the interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, face challenges due to the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr. This underscores the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, a critical area for PDH technology development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, unlike steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking which rely on limited feedstocks. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher propylene selectivity, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology is particularly viable in regions with abundant propane supply, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant shale gas feedstock, enhancing sustainability and cost-effectiveness. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas resources, making it a sustainable and economically beneficial solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2-3% annual growth forecast for propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution for efficient production. PDH directly produces propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, ensuring abundant and cost-effective feedstock. This proprietary method addresses conventional production challenges, optimizing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, currently favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins, like propylene, with polymer-quality purity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. While CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation, underscoring PDH's potential to address these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and efficiency. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It uses propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. The abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady and affordable supply, addressing the limitations of traditional methods that struggle to meet market demand. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts improve process efficiency and product selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane to value-added propene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and growing propene demand by efficiently converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that affect catalyst activity and stability in other processes. This method utilizes propane, an important chemical raw material, enhancing feedstock availability and bypassing intermediate steps to reduce undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not reliant on scarce petroleum resources. As a direct converter of propane to propylene, PDH is the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, particularly in improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking, making it more sustainable. PDH's growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and high costs and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "The growing demand for propylene, disrupted by the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, necessitates on-purpose methods for propylene production. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, offering process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH is recognized as the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, offering high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene. It boasts high selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It's considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional propylene production methods. The use of vanadium-based catalysts, which are highly active, selective, and regenerative, further enhances PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an effective alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas production, addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It reduces dependence on expensive and less available naphtha, offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, and can be implemented in smaller, modular plants for flexible production. PDH's use of propane ensures stable supply, while its direct conversion process results in higher yields, lower energy consumption, and minimal byproducts, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production compared to traditional steam cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional methods by requiring high-temperature conditions for optimal yields due to the reaction's endothermic nature. Developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity is essential for PDH, ensuring efficient and selective propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology offers high spacetime yield, commonly achieved with Pt or Cr based catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH can utilize renewable green propane, a sustainable alternative to non-renewable sources. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, which necessitates regeneration in conventional processes. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) with boron-based catalysts shows promise for improved selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and utilizing more abundant elements. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is crucial. PDH, with further development, can transform the manufacturing landscape of propylene, a key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendliness, cost-efficiency, and high selectivity to propylene with hydrogen as a by-product. It leverages widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods in feedstock utilization and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst due to the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity at 853 K, demonstrating PDH's potential for industrial use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability through innovative catalyst design, addressing challenges in propylene production. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, the catalyst achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating its efficiency and environmental friendliness without relying on non-noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock for stable and cheap light alkanes like propane. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which often consume large amounts of energy and struggle with demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes propane, abundant and stable from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. PDH's catalytic processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, enhanced energy efficiency, and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH offers higher product selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the growing global demand with less environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with traditional methods that are energy-intensive and emit high CO2 levels. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves superior conversion of propane to propylene with high selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing reliance on oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing challenges in conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a leading solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Propylene, crucial for industrial applications, saw a demand of 116 million tons in 2020. PDH, alongside other methods, garners attention for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering improvements over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for advancements in this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, despite being highly endothermic and requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production. It addresses feedstock availability by utilizing abundant shale gas resources, a benefit highlighted by its renewed attention in the industry. Challenges include catalyst deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering under high-temperature conditions. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are desired to improve process efficiency and product selectivity, as coke deposition is inevitable under PDH conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with good onstream stability and high selectivity, show promise for PDH, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane. This development is crucial as it targets the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high platinum prices and chromium toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation. Propylene, a vital component in the production of various chemicals, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demands. PDH's ability to produce propylene with less waste and more efficiency makes it a promising solution, addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted PDH as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts, noted for their effectiveness in PDH, and the element's earth abundance, make them a viable long-term solution, addressing the limitations of current methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, produced by various petrochemical processes. It offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted for PDH, making it a promising solution for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene production, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity reduce dependency on oil-based feedstocks and streamline production, enhancing its economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy requirements and selectivity issues at high temperatures, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these, as shown in emerging PDH technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, though cost-effective and non-toxic, have limitations in activity and stability, which are improved by moderate Ni introduction into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, enhancing both activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely cheap. PDH factories' adaptability and the growing propylene market, combined with the price difference between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield, thereby overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and energy-intensive, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion rates. Increasing reaction temperature, reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, enhances propane conversion, crucial for cost reduction. PDH specifically tackles conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation, making it a promising solution for growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional methods, leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demands. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. The use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional methods. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity towards olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, sourced from various feedstocks. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer high propylene selectivity, minimizing unwanted byproducts. PDH improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, and offers higher product selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. It utilizes abundant and economical propane from natural gas and shale gas production. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts and conditions, but catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies is driven by the escalating global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, particularly those utilizing indium-based catalysts, are being investigated for their potential to offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to enhance PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing either the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst or the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, address the challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative feedstock and potentially higher process efficiency and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting low-value feedstock into high-value propylene. This makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH exhibits higher efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion to propylene with minimal by-products, resulting in a cleaner, more targeted production process. This technology is well-suited to meet growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. It produces only propylene, enhancing product selectivity, and benefits from abundant and cheaper propane feedstock due to hydraulic fracturing advancements. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have led to a cost-effective shale gas boom, reducing gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current favorable price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, offering a strategic advantage over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly with the CoSiBeta catalyst, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The pursuit of a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underscores PDH's focus on environmental impact and product quality, addressing limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cheap feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering single-feedstock simplicity and single-product efficiency, which enhances process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high propylene yields but requires high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation. PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps, reducing the likelihood of undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It provides an alternative to conventional methods, which are constrained by dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology, particularly in improving catalyst efficiency and selectivity under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show promise in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency in meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. With the disruption of ethylene availability from natural gas and shale gas, PDH emerges as a solution to the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency in propylene production, making it a promising on-purpose method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method ensures sufficient propylene supply without depending on depleting petroleum resources, effectively meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's use of abundant propane, higher efficiency, and selectivity result in lower operating costs and environmental impact, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional methods. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the need for developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and limiting overoxidation. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, prioritizing abundant elements and low temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas as a cheap feedstock, achieving high selectivity to propylene, and producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, offers a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zn@S-1 catalysts show high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable industrial route. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in traditional PDH catalysts have driven the search for earth-abundant and non-toxic metals like zinc, enhancing feedstock flexibility and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. It achieves high activity, selectivity, and stability of cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals. A catalyst design encapsulating nanoparticles into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support controls the size of ZnO nanoparticles and enhances stability at high temperatures. This results in high propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's effectiveness in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, maintaining similar selectivity, demonstrating PDH's superiority in addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. This direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods that often result in a gap between demand and supply of propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has become an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and limitations of conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, improving availability compared to naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. It also has higher product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, unlike complex traditional methods. This makes PDH a sustainable and efficient solution for meeting the increasing need for propylene, a crucial raw material in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It uses less energy and emits less CO2. PDH with a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods that cause catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability compared to oil-based sources. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, which provide better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability than Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, addressing high global demand (116 million tons in 2020) and outperforming methods like MTP and WGSR in cost and environmental impact. PDH's advantages in feedstock utilization, bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, make it a leading solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the heavy demand in the feedstock market. It offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH utilizes Pt-based catalysts, enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic stability. Additionally, it provides environmental benefits due to its efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, offering improvements in feedstock use, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for PDH's advancements.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It utilizes supported platinum-based catalysts, though susceptible to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve efficiency. PDH's advantage in feedstock availability is highlighted by its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propylene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity faced by conventional methods, particularly in meeting the growing demand for propylene where steam cracking cannot further increase production. The development of these catalysts highlights PDH's potential to provide a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining attention due to its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. As conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demands due to fossil energy consumption, PDH offers a more efficient and selective process, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted PDH as a promising technology. Conventional PDH methods, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, limiting industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability, making PDH a key method to meet global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene with high selectivity. It outperforms conventional methods by being less energy-intensive and yielding more propylene, while offering enhanced resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap and readily available propane as feedstock, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional methods' challenges regarding feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures pose selectivity and stability issues, but the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these, as evidenced by its success in mitigating side reactions and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propene, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, though cost-effective and nontoxic, have limitations in catalytic activity and stability. The introduction of moderate Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances both activity and stability, making PDH a superior method for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH's advantage is bolstered by the fracking technology that makes propane feedstocks affordable. Additionally, PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, which addresses availability issues. The development of efficient catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, showcasing high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, making PDH a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, offers an atom-economic reaction converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by strategies to increase propane conversion, such as adjusting temperature and pressure, reducing hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. Utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, including natural gas and petrochemical processes. It boasts higher selectivity to propene, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution that addresses the limitations of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing widely available propane as feedstock, offering high product selectivity and process efficiency. Compared to conventional steam cracking, PDH operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, thus improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes enhances propylene selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene with low activity to CC cleavage, minimizing unwanted byproducts. This method also operates at lower temperatures and pressures, potentially lowering greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and thermodynamically stable products like COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high Pt cost and Cr environmental impact, PDH technologies, particularly those using indium-based catalysts, show promise for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, reflects efforts to improve PDH technology, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing Oleflex and Catofin technologies, face limitations due to high catalyst costs and environmental concerns, underscoring the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, which have limitations. PDH uses abundant propane as a feedstock, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. It simplifies the process, reducing costs, and is more sustainable and cost-effective, making it a viable alternative to conventional methods, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's higher product selectivity and process efficiency make it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, offering sustainability and cost-effectiveness. PDH exhibits higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene and the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a widely employed commercial solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Propylene demand is forecasted to rise 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the need for efficient production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has led to a decline in propylene supply and a price surge, creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, making it a favorable choice in the current market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. While CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. PDH aims to tackle these challenges by developing a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, addressing product selectivity and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides abundant and cost-effective propane for PDH, addressing feedstock concerns. PDH inhibits overoxidation, improving efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes PDH from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. This addresses the challenges of product selectivity and process efficiency. The use of propane as a feedstock, which is widely available, also contributes to the technology's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity that overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a promising solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but requires high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity, crucial for PDH's advantage in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane into propene, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can decrease catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the depletion of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH directly converts propane to propylene. However, its high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts for PDH under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. It addresses conventional method limitations, with growing contribution from new plants. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses challenges faced by conventional production methods, specifically in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency. As an emerging method for propylene production, PDH offers advantages that make it a promising solution in the context of limitations faced by traditional approaches.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is efficient and cost-effective compared to conventional methods, with vanadium-based catalysts emerging as a promising solution for high activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses challenges faced by conventional methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet growing demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without reliance on dwindling oil, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and scarce naphtha. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. PDH's modular plants offer flexibility and lower transportation costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to the growing global demand for propene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by requiring high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, which needs high temperatures to achieve high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing challenges of conventional methods. PDH can utilize renewable green propane, offering a sustainable alternative. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, which requires regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) lacks coke issues but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are promising for their activity and selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally beneficial but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production. PDH utilizes abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, addressing feedstock availability issues. It achieves high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It overcomes conventional method challenges by offering alternative non-petroleum based feedstock, improved process efficiency, and high product selectivity. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst, as demonstrated by the Zn@S-1 catalyst, which exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, and regeneration capability, making it a viable option for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after nearly 6 hours on stream, demonstrating its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst, developed for PDH, exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, increasing production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often result in a demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in use today.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to less efficient and selective traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and reduced emissions compared to conventional methods. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH, leveraging propane from natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing the growing demand for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking due to lower energy consumption and reduced CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly minimizing catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing reliance on oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. Compared to alternatives like MTP and WGSR, PDH offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing technology have further promoted the conversion of low-valued propane, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It directly produces propylene, addressing the growing demand and offering better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which rely on naphtha or heavy oil. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it an on-purpose, efficient, and eco-friendly choice for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production. It addresses feedstock availability by utilizing abundant shale gas resources, making it a promising method. Challenges include catalyst deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering. Stable, anti-sintering catalysts are desired to improve process efficiency and product selectivity, as coke deposition is inevitable under PDH conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane. The development of novel catalysts aims to overcome drawbacks of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a crucial component in the production of various chemicals, faces growing global demand. Conventional production methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet these demands due to limitations in feedstock availability and efficiency. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, making it an attractive alternative. PDH's ability to produce propylene with less waste and higher efficiency addresses the challenges of conventional methods, ensuring a sustainable supply of this vital chemical.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane reserves highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Conventional PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising PDH solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering greater resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane as a feedstock. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily adapted for PDH, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable and economically viable solution for propylene production. It boasts high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and reducing energy consumption, making it superior to traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH's reliance on propane ensures a stable feedstock, streamlining the production process and enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It overcomes conventional method challenges by improving feedstock efficiency, process economics, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to side reactions like cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propene production, leveraging the growing availability of propane from shale gas. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni in ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhance catalytic activity and stability, crucial for efficient propene production. This technology specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have low selectivity and heavy fossil fuel reliance. PDH benefits from the low cost of propane-rich shale gas, a byproduct of fracking, making it highly profitable due to the price differential between propylene and propane. Additionally, PDH plants are versatile, capable of running various reactions, addressing the growing demand for propylene in the market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, thanks to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. This addresses feedstock availability issues. Efficient PDH catalysts, such as a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely recognized for propylene production, is atom-economic, converting propane to propylene and H2 with high value. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by the potential to reduce costs through increased propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency. PDH specifically addresses these issues by utilizing abundant alkanes in shale gas, ensuring high selectivity to olefins and overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, improving feedstock availability. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, which is abundant and economical due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective than high-pressure processes. The process avoids the issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making PDH more efficient and selective for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at low pressure, Oleflex at 13 bar, and STAR at 56 bar. Catalyst deactivation and long-term stability remain challenges, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, employing catalysts such as CrOx/Al2O3 and supported PtSn, face challenges but are being improved through the investigation of indium-based and other catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, for higher stability and selectivity. This research addresses the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, specifically the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, addresses challenges of conventional methods by offering improved feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a key challenge for PDH's further advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By directly converting propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH utilizes a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. This process offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH's single-reactor design simplifies the process, reducing costs, and its higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option. Particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, PDH is a viable alternative, targeting propane conversion to propylene for higher yields and potentially lower operating costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering higher process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH directly converts propane, making it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. This technology's higher efficiency and selectivity result in a cleaner, more targeted production process, better meeting demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas condensates, rich in propane, are now more accessible due to hydraulic fracturing, offering abundant and cost-effective feedstock. PDH's unique ability to produce only propylene, not hybrid products, enhances selectivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals and fuels. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and highlighting the need for on-purpose technologies like PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current price gap between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed olefin products from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant and low-cost propane into value-added propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of CoSiBeta and supported CrOx/Pt catalysts in PDH processes indicate improved efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. However, these catalysts face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation, underscoring the need for green and affordable PDH catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas, its ability to prevent overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and its high selectivity for propylene, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. This suggests PDH offers advantages in feedstock flexibility and overall process optimization compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' inefficiencies. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    