Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as the sole product. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge, with lower production costs, makes it superior to traditional methods, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses the growing demand for propylene by improving efficiency and selectivity. Despite being endothermic and prone to coking, nanostructured catalysts enhance propylene yields, making PDH advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing the decline in fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It utilizes abundant propane, improving efficiency and selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical method for producing propylene, a vital petrochemical for various products. As conventional methods struggle with feedstock scarcity and efficiency, PDH, through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, offers a commercially viable alternative. However, the high-temperature requirement for catalytic activity in PDH leads to side reactions and low propylene selectivity, posing a challenge for catalyst efficiency and stability in industrial production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental benefits and efficiency in propylene production, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing importance is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and high costs. Recent advancements feature eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, which exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges, offers superior product selectivity, making it a solution to conventional propylene production limitations. It balances production scales and meets the global demand for propylene, emerging as a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and reduced by-product formation, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs, making it cost-effective. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their high activity and selectivity for propylene, address the need for novel non-noble metal-based catalysts, enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH technology leverages abundant propane and the significant price gap between propane and propylene, offering a sustainable alternative to conventional methods hindered by depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a superior propylene production method. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, reducing energy consumption and costs. PDH's modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions lacking infrastructure. Its use of propane, more stable and widely available than naphtha, and higher propylene yields compared to steam cracking, make PDH economically and environmentally favorable, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity through its endothermic nature and the use of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yield for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative processes prone to coke formation, ODH-O2 using boron catalysts limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts abundant, cheap propane from shale gas into propylene with high selectivity, producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process offers a superior alternative to conventional methods, leveraging widely available feedstock and achieving high product selectivity, directly addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, meets growing global propylene demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. Zinc, as a non-toxic and abundant metal, is a promising catalyst that overcomes limitations of current PDH catalysts. Notably, the Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, showcasing its potential for enhancing efficiency and selectivity in industrial PDH processes over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It excels in addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, PDH catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after 6 hours, demonstrating its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an eco-friendly alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses global propylene demand by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, tripling propene productivity while maintaining selectivity, underscoring its potential as a superior production method.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. As an emerging non-oxidative route, PDH is a solution to the challenges of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH offers higher yields and lower costs. Utilizing shale gas-derived propane makes PDH more sustainable, efficiently utilizing resources and selectively activating CH bonds for increased propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers key advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock for better availability, enhanced efficiency, and improved selectivity. Unlike energy-intensive conventional methods from naphtha and crude oil, PDH offers a sustainable, eco-friendly process with minimized CO2 and NOx emissions. By utilizing propane sourced from natural gas, PDH effectively meets the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, which are major causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, excels in propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich areas, by offering superior feedstock availability. It surpasses traditional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, making the process more efficient and selective. This makes PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as a cost-effective and environmentally sound method for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the availability of low-cost propane from shale gas, making PDH a promising pathway for meeting demand while addressing challenges in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for improved feedstock availability, addressing global propylene demand. It offers cost reduction, enhanced efficiency, and increased product selectivity over traditional methods. A superior catalyst boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its efficient CH bond activation, extended reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. It overcomes conventional method limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, particularly through Pt-based catalysts that boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It faces challenges, notably with Pt-based catalysts, affecting stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, is advantageous for propylene production. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures, and the use of stable anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts during cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, effectively addressing challenges posed by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct and efficient route for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH processes demonstrate high selectivity and onstream stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly tackling constraints of conventional naphtha steam cracking methods struggling with escalating global demand for propylene, a vital chemical manufacturing component.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, effectively addresses growing propylene demand by overcoming Cr toxicity and high Pt costs in conventional methods. Cobalt's earth abundance ensures PDH's long-term utility, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand due to its high selectivity in converting propane to propylene. It offers superior process efficiency and reduces environmental impact by avoiding energy-intensive steps, making it a preferable alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It can retrofit existing facilities, reducing investment, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand and overcome conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring a stable supply while minimizing byproducts. It outperforms oil-based processes in energy efficiency and cost, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale and natural gases, shifts propylene production from naphtha to light alkanes, enhancing feedstock availability. Despite high energy consumption and reaction temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, boasts high propylene conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content enhance activity and stability, making PDH a cost-effective, nontoxic alternative to conventional methods, efficiently addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional fossil fuel-dependent methods with lower selectivity and higher CO2 emissions. PDH benefits from abundant and cheap propane feedstock, thanks to fracking technology, making it highly adjustable and profitable. The growing demand for propylene and the price differential between propylene and propane further enhance PDH's economic appeal, addressing the challenges of conventional production by providing a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. With ZnO-based on silicalite-1 catalysts, PDH exhibits high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-efficient process, converts propane to propylene and H2, maximizing feedstock utilization. Its endothermic nature and thermodynamic equilibrium are managed through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts, closely achieving ideal results. Enhancing propane conversion by increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures effectively reduces costs. PDH's advantages in feedstock efficiency, process optimization, and product selectivity make it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. Leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH serves as an effective supplement to traditional methods. Its thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency faced by conventional methods. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH ensures high selectivity toward olefins, making it a superior method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity and yields, thereby addressing the challenges of conventional production methods and reducing costs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology utilizes abundant propane to produce propylene under milder conditions, achieving high yields with fewer byproducts. This direct conversion enhances efficiency and selectivity, potentially reducing energy use and emissions, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. It capitalizes on abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, directly dehydrogenating propane without oxidants, thus avoiding deep oxidation and COx production issues. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, using Cr/Al2O3, PtSn/Al2O3, and PtSn/ZnO-Al2O3 catalysts respectively, demonstrate the technology's adaptability and effectiveness under varying pressures.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane, makes it a promising solution. Research on indium-based catalysts optimizes PDH, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and ample propane reserves, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The use of PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts in these technologies, however, presents challenges due to high costs and environmental concerns, driving the need for more sustainable and cost-effective alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly converting abundant propane, achieving higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its efficiency and sustainability, especially in propane-rich areas, make it cost-effective. PDH's targeted conversion yields higher propylene output and potentially reduces operating costs, surpassing traditional methods in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner alternative for propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, converting propane to propylene with high yield and minimal by-products, outperforming conventional naphtha or oil-based processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, exclusively producing propylene, is pivotal in meeting the projected 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand until 2035. Enabled by hydraulic fracturing, PDH benefits from abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock. It surpasses conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity, addressing their limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have slashed gas costs, boosting propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising propylene production method. The shift to abundant, cheap ethane in U.S. steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and favoring PDH. PDH's profitability, tied to the propane-propylene price gap, is currently advantageous. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields specific olefins, not mixed products, and is optimized for polymer-quality purity, effectively addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It offers high activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This green, low-cost approach addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a viable alternative with its high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, curbs overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. This proprietary technology leverages cheap propane from shale gas extraction, inhibits overoxidation unlike ODH, and its selectivity sets it apart from hybrid MTO and FTO products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, efficiently tackles the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. With over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, the catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity and cost-effectiveness, is superior for propylene production. It utilizes abundant propane feedstock, addressing conventional methods' issues of high energy consumption and low selectivity, making it an efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, excels due to its streamlined process and cost-effectiveness. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from shale gas, PDH ensures a competitive supply, addressing market demand more effectively than traditional methods. Its advantages, including a single product focus and wide raw material sources, make it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering high activity and yields. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, poses challenges like coking and sintering, but advancements in nanostructured catalysts improve propylene selectivity and efficiency over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, directly converting low-cost propane to high-value propene with high selectivity. By skipping intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, PDH boosts efficiency and selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route, especially as an alternative to dwindling petroleum resources. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology to enhance catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, addressing the challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based methods and is expanding its role in meeting the growing demand for propylene. Challenges with conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and high costs, are being addressed by recent advancements in eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its superior process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional propylene production methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the high global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene, effectively overcomes the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures a sufficient supply without relying on dwindling oil resources, making it a cost-effective and promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, offering lower operating costs and higher yields than conventional steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-performance catalysts, meets global propylene demand by achieving high yields at high temperatures, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods, directly addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production offers high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing the propene gap and sustainability issues by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2 using boron catalysts shows promise by limiting overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 lags in propene yield. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and CO2 intrinsic activity, utilizing abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing, aligning with green chemistry principles and reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, efficiently meets global propylene demand, offering high selectivity and eco-friendly hydrogen by-product, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for meeting the global demand for propylene. Zinc, as a viable catalyst, enhances efficiency and selectivity. Notably, the Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates superior dehydrogenation activity and high propylene selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, offering an eco-friendly solution. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing superior efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a sustainable alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing global demand while minimizing environmental impact. It avoids the use of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, making it a more eco-friendly option. ZnO-based catalysts in PDH significantly enhance propene productivity by three times, matching selectivity levels of conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, under relevant industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, addressing their energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging and advantageous technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha, improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable, cost-effective option that efficiently utilizes shale gas resources, leading to higher propylene yields and selectivity, thus addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, efficiently meets growing propylene demand. It overcomes feedstock constraints of conventional naphtha and crude oil methods, offering higher energy efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene, with minimal byproducts, enhances product selectivity, making it a preferred alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental benefits over traditional methods by utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability. This effectively addresses challenges of conventional methods by minimizing coke formation and sintering, making it advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, improves feedstock availability for propylene production. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to traditional methods, with added benefits of cost-effectiveness and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst soaring global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, conventional production methods struggle to meet the 116 million tons demand seen in 2020. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising solution, offering high efficiency and environmental benefits. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from shale gas, making PDH the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers key advantages in propylene production: enhanced feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and improved efficiency and selectivity due to a more direct process. A high-performance PDH catalyst further amplifies these benefits, addressing the challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, excelling in propylene production. Pt-based catalysts notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional methods, making PDH a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity highlight the need for catalyst improvement to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional challenges by effectively utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, highlighting its potential in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand due to its high selectivity and stability, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology, notably with cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a sustainable solution. It overcomes conventional hurdles, utilizing earth-abundant resources and promising superior performance, aligning with long-term industry needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a high-selectivity process for converting propane directly to propylene, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking. This method enhances resource efficiency and reduces environmental impact, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane and butane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Its compatibility with existing facilities minimizes investment for retrofitting, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable, high-yield propylene production with minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically superior choice over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundant light alkanes from shale gas, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. Despite high energy demands, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates cracking and coking, improving selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by its success in tackling these grand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective solution for propylene production, addressing global demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts enhanced with Ni boost catalytic activity and stability, optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process that surpasses conventional methods, which are fossil fuel-reliant, CO2-emitting, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, enhancing its profitability. PDH's flexibility and the growing demand for propylene, coupled with the price differential between propylene and propane, make it a highly advantageous solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. It employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thus improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. It utilizes widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, improving process efficiency. Strategies to increase conversion include raising reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures, addressing the thermodynamic equilibrium limitation. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring the process's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand, offering exclusive olefin selectivity over conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation to address challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties contribute to its process efficiency, making it a key method for propylene production. Its ability to selectively activate CH bonds while suppressing CC cleavage is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially in the context of propylene's lower stability compared to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity and yields, making it a cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternative to conventional methods, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion to propylene at lower temperatures and pressures reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and easier integration with existing technology. It operates without oxidants, avoiding the deep oxidation issues and COx production associated with oxidative dehydrogenation. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability, PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it superior to conventional methods, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology for propylene production is driven by the growing global demand and low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by offering improved stability and selectivity through research into indium-based catalysts. Efforts to optimize PDH involve investigations into a variety of catalysts, highlighting its promise in overcoming limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology, like Oleflex and Catofin, is emerging as a promising solution for propylene production. PDH's key advantage lies in its ability to address the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its advancement is contingent on the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts, which will enable PDH to overcome challenges and meet the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting propane to propylene, boasts higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply. This addresses feedstock availability and meets the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a cleaner, more efficient, and cost-effective solution for propylene production, particularly in shale-rich regions. It enhances feedstock availability, achieves higher conversion and yield, and minimizes environmental impact, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology stands out for its exclusive propylene production, enhancing selectivity. Propane, sourced abundantly from shale gas condensates due to hydraulic fracturing, ensures cost-effective feedstock availability, surpassing conventional production methods. Regulating reaction conditions in PDH can further improve propylene productivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, excluding the Eurozone, highlights PDH technology's promise in addressing feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity challenges. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The surge in cheap ethane has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, affecting propylene supply and prices. PDH, highly profitable due to propane-propylene price differential, offers exclusive olefin production, unlike mixed outputs from conventional methods, and is optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, boosts catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This addresses feedstock availability and environmental impact, making PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and boosts efficiency by avoiding overoxidation, a common ODH issue. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes PDH from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high selectivity and efficiency, outperforming conventional methods. Enhanced extraction of shale gas and natural gas hydrates has made propane abundant and cost-effective, positioning PDH as a promising solution to meet rising global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as the sole feedstock and producing propylene exclusively, offers a cost-effective solution to meet growing propylene demand. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, PDH ensures a steady supply, unlike traditional naphtha and coal methods. Its competitive edge lies in lower costs and high product selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production in meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, leads to issues like coking and particle sintering, but nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing declining fossil oil resources and rising demand. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, making it a promising solution for global propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical method for propylene production, addressing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. As a commercially viable process, it converts propane directly to propylene, reducing dependence on dwindling petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature requirements of PDH lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH catalysts with enhanced selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial, making PDH a promising solution for sustainable propylene supply.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, provides environmental advantages over oil-based methods and is increasingly significant in propylene production. It addresses challenges with conventional catalysts, including health risks from CrOx and cost issues with Pt-based catalysts. Recent advancements feature eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key method for on-purpose propylene production, excelling in process efficiency and product selectivity. It resolves feedstock availability issues caused by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas, making it the most efficient process for meeting high propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers high propylene production efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs compared to conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts further enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, offers a viable solution to the growing demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH overcomes the challenge of petroleum depletion, ensuring higher process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene. This reduces reliance on costly naphtha, minimizes byproducts, and lowers energy consumption. PDH's modular plants offer flexibility and cut transportation costs, making it economically and environmentally superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its endothermic reaction requiring high-activity catalysts, optimizes yields at high temperatures, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yield and addresses challenges in propylene production by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research priorities should include low temperature CO2 activation to develop lower energy routes to propene from green propane, transforming its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently bridges the propylene supply-demand gap with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity make it superior to scarce and toxic Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. The Zn@S-1 catalyst's high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity, highlights its potential for industrial PDH processes, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production with superior activity, selectivity, and stability, surpassing conventional methods. Environmentally friendly catalysts in PDH achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting its efficiency and relevance to meeting global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses environmental issues by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, provides a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading technology in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high selectivity and minimal byproducts, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. By effectively leveraging shale gas resources, PDH offers higher yields, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a viable alternative to conventional propylene production methods, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, improved process efficiency, and increased product selectivity. By converting propane to propylene, PDH effectively overcomes the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, making it a sustainable solution for escalating global propylene demand. It enhances feedstock availability, reduces energy consumption, and improves product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Propylene, a key raw material for various products, requires more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly processes like PDH to meet growing needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. By employing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, notably minimizing coke formation and sintering, common drawbacks in conventional processes leading to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces oil dependency in propylene production. Its superior vanadium oxide catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. PDH's competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity make it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional techniques. Propylene demand, essential for polypropylene and other industrial applications, surpassed 116 million tons in 2020. PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing further enhance PDH's appeal by facilitating the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet rising global demand for propylene. A durable catalyst boosts PDH's efficiency, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, superior process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. It leverages efficient CH bond activation and Pt-based catalysts to address the limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers superior feedstock efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, however, present challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for catalyst enhancement in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas, addresses the global demand for propylene by offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhance efficiency. PDH's utilization of shale gas for propylene production underscores its market superiority.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in propylene production by offering enhanced onstream stability and high selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane feedstock, boosting process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative to conventional methods constrained by fossil energy consumption, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in meeting rising global propylene demand, leveraging cobalt-based catalysts for enhanced efficiency and selectivity. This addresses the toxicity and high costs associated with Cr and Pt in conventional processes. The earth's abundant cobalt supply supports the development of new catalysts, ensuring long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, excels in propylene production with high selectivity and efficiency, surpassing traditional methods by avoiding energy-intensive steps. It demonstrates potential for improved resource use and reduced environmental impact, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its retrofit capability in existing facilities reduces investment costs. PDH's superior propylene selectivity makes it a viable solution for escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. It ensures a stable supply, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, is critical for propylene production. It overcomes conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite high energy demands and temperature challenges, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles issues like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, affirming its significance in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, offers a cost-effective and nontoxic solution for propylene production, addressing global demand with high conversion rates and selectivity. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, highlighting PDH's promise in overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts, addressing conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and the technology's adaptability enhances profitability, given the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and superior process efficiency with high propylene yield and stability, addressing global demand challenges and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite thermodynamic limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustments and pressure control, enhancing process efficiency and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock utilization and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH methods. Leveraging shale gas exploitation, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method to meet increasing propylene demand. Its high selectivity and ability to utilize appropriate catalysts for olefin production, especially in the context of propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene, make PDH a vital supplement to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable, efficient, and high-yield method for propylene production, excelling in selectivity. It addresses feedstock availability issues, reduces production costs, and minimizes environmental impact, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages diverse propane sources, operates under gentler conditions, and achieves high propylene yields with reduced byproducts. Its enhanced selectivity and direct conversion process boost efficiency, cut energy use, and lower emissions, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale, offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, including Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts but face challenges with deactivation and long-term stability. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH can be carried out without oxidants, preventing the formation of thermodynamically stable products like COx, making it a more favorable method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, notably Catofin and Oleflex, are advantageous for propylene production due to their high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Ongoing research on catalysts, including indium-based ones, aims to further improve PDH efficiency, highlighting efforts to optimize this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin, is a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, tackling challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propylene with higher yields and lower costs. It outperforms conventional methods by offering higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor, making it a viable alternative, especially in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability, and directly converts propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective process is ideal for meeting global demand while reducing environmental impact, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, stands out for its exclusive propylene output, enhancing product selectivity. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial in meeting this escalating global need, making it a promising solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, capitalizing on fracking advancements that lower gas costs and favor shale-based ethane over naphtha. This U.S. shift reduces propylene supply, increasing prices and PDH's profitability, as noted in quote [6]. PDH's on-purpose technique, highlighted in quote [7], yields high-purity propylene, distinct from mixed olefins, optimizing for polymer-quality output.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts superior propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers superior C3H6 selectivity (>95%) and regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Its enhanced anti-coke stability, influenced by active Co species and surface acid property, provides greater feedstock flexibility compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Enhanced propane availability from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction further strengthens PDH's position as a promising alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's single-product focus and lower costs make it a competitive choice, overcoming traditional methods' limitations in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, PDH employs nanostructured catalysts to enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical route. Challenges include its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that can cause cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions are crucial. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods in light of dwindling petroleum resources and increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based methods in propylene production, with its role expanding due to new plant constructions. Challenges remain with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, posing health risks and high costs. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, demonstrating high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading solution for propylene production amidst growing global demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. It's crucial in balancing ethylene and propylene production, disrupted by the rise of ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas, showcasing its adaptability in the evolving energy landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost-effective, high-efficiency propylene production with superior selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, ensuring high efficiency and reduced costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the price gap between propane and propylene to meet global propylene demand. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH ensures a stable propylene supply, reduces environmental impact, and offers cost-effectiveness, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing growing global demand for propylene, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method. Its endothermic nature underscores the need for high-performance catalysts, a key factor in its success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, excels in high spacetime yield, addressing global propylene demand. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative methods, PDH avoids coke formation, and ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, mitigates overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, requires enhanced propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, prioritizing abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propene manufacturing, aligning with green chemistry principles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to the growing propylene demand, achieving high selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, thus addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges by improving feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, offers a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, and regeneration capability, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, effectively addresses challenges in propylene production. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating superior performance over conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing challenges like toxicity and ecologically harmful chlorine use. A new ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity by three times compared to conventional methods, underlining PDH's efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, directly converts propane to propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. As a non-oxidative process, PDH surpasses conventional methods, addressing their challenges and emerging as a promising solution to meet the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a stable feedstock, offers high selectivity for propylene production with minimal byproducts, making it a cost-effective and sustainable alternative to conventional methods. Its efficient conversion process, leveraging shale gas resources, addresses limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a feedstock-independent route that boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, addressing the escalating global demand and the limitations of conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane, improving feedstock availability, and is notably more energy-efficient with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's high selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, makes it a sustainable solution for the growing need for this critical raw material, as highlighted by the increasing demand for downstream products like polypropylene and the need for cleaner production processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers superior economic and environmental benefits over traditional propylene production methods, which are energy-intensive and emit significant CO2. By utilizing a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing issues of coke formation and sintering that are common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, boosts feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing global propylene demand challenges. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH exhibit superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, making PDH a competitive and promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology emerges as a superior solution, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it the most promising pathway for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH optimally converts low-valued propane, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, offers key advantages over conventional methods in propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, reduces costs, and boosts efficiency and selectivity, particularly through advanced catalysts, making it a viable solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation capability, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits make it a leading choice. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, struggle with short-term stability and selectivity, highlighting the need for catalyst improvement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. Its high-temperature process for propane conversion, though challenging, is improved by stable anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts during cyclic coke combustion, boosting process efficiency. PDH's effectiveness in addressing feedstock availability and product selectivity challenges makes it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH ensure onstream stability and high selectivity, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to meet global propylene demand more efficiently than conventional naphtha steam cracking, excelling in selectivity and reducing by-products, making it pivotal for chemical synthesis and overcoming limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and ample propane reserves, PDH technology, notably cobalt-based catalysts, stands out as a sustainable solution. These catalysts, abundant and efficient in PDH, mitigate the toxicity and cost issues of conventional methods, ensuring long-term industry viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting propane to propylene with high selectivity and efficiency. It outperforms conventional methods by being more resource-efficient and environmentally friendly, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging affordable propane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a retrofit-friendly solution to meet escalating global demand, outperforming conventional methods in addressing feedstock limitations and enhancing product yield.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, outperforming oil-based methods with lower yields and complex separation. Its energy efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and reduced oil dependency make PDH a sustainable solution for escalating propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the abundance of light alkanes from shale gas, boosts feedstock efficiency and propylene selectivity. Despite high energy demands and cracking risks at elevated temperatures, the active site isolation strategy enhances selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, offers a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, crucial for polypropylene and other industrial needs. It employs zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content for enhanced activity and stability. PDH ensures feedstock availability, achieves high conversion rates, and has selectivity to propene under mild conditions, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a targeted, on-purpose process for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking technology has made propane feedstock for PDH highly affordable, and the adaptability of PDH factories enhances profitability, considering the price differential between propylene and propane and the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas and efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, ensures feedstock availability, enhances catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of traditional propylene production methods in terms of efficiency and yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing the growing global demand for propylene. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates, maximizing propane utilization. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion, reducing costs. By utilizing widely available propane and achieving high propylene yields with minimal by-products, PDH surpasses conventional methods in feedstock flexibility, efficiency, and selectivity, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical solution for escalating global propylene demand, capitalizing on abundant shale gas. Its exclusive olefin selectivity over MTO, FTO, and ODH processes, as highlighted in quotes 1 and 2, is a key advantage. PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature enhance process efficiency, addressing feedstock availability and efficiency issues faced by conventional methods. As noted in quote 3, PDH's unique properties ensure high selectivity towards olefins, making it a promising method for increasing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity to propene, which translates to increased yields and reduced costs, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, achieves high propylene selectivity and efficiency under milder conditions than steam cracking, yielding high propylene output with reduced byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion in PDH minimizes byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially decreases greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. PtSn catalysts efficiently catalyze propane dehydrogenation, though deactivation and stability remain challenges. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring higher selectivity for propylene. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, differ in catalysts and operational conditions, with efforts focused on improving catalyst resistance to coke and aggregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, offers stability and selectivity advantages over conventional methods. Ongoing research into catalysts, including indium-based and materials like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based substances, and nanocarbon, aims to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale gas, PDH technologies like Oleflex and Catofin offer key advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. These processes address the limitations of conventional methods, particularly the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, as highlighted by the challenges of high Pt costs and Cr toxicity in current PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane feedstock for propylene production, outperforming steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking in energy efficiency, product selectivity, and process simplicity. By specifically targeting propane conversion, PDH achieves higher propylene yields, making it a cost-effective alternative in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner solution for propylene production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. This makes PDH well-suited to meet the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, highlights the superiority of PDH technology. PDH excels in exclusive propylene production, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates. Its product selectivity and process efficiency, particularly in enhancing propylene yield, make PDH a standout solution over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, utilizing cost-effective shale gas as feedstock. Enhanced shale gas extraction has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas more attractive than traditional sources. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, driving up prices and enhancing PDH's market appeal. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the favorable propane-propylene price differential. As an on-purpose technique, PDH ensures selective propylene production, achieving polymer-quality purity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing catalysts like CoSiBeta, converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It excels in catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, enhancing availability, avoids overoxidation for improved efficiency, and exhibits high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes and ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency issues. Its anti-coke stability, attributed to the state of active Co species and surface acid property, enhances recycling PDH reactions, making it advantageous over conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, reduced energy consumption, and capability to address growing demand. Enhanced by advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH benefits from abundant and cost-effective propane, improving efficiency and economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as the sole feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as the single product, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods. The abundant and cheap light alkanes from shale gas make PDH cost-effective and competitive, meeting the growing global demand for propylene with its high process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses propylene production challenges by enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Despite high-temperature requirements that affect selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts improve propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for fulfilling the rising global demand for propylene, a fundamental petrochemical used in diverse products (Quote [1]). It offers an economical and direct route for propylene production from propane, addressing the limitations of conventional methods amidst dwindling petroleum resources (Quote [3]). However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, impacting propylene selectivity (Quote [6]). Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking in propylene production, as it's poised to increase its contribution to overall propene production. Challenges with conventional catalysts, including health risks and Pt sintering, are mitigated by recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhancing PDH's efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in feedstock flexibility and process efficiency, directly tackling the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Its enhanced selectivity and efficiency make it a leading solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as highlighted by its ability to address the imbalance caused by the rise of ethane cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency, selectivity, and reduced by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH superior to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, ensuring high efficiency and cost savings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price gap to propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production without relying on dwindling oil reserves, offering a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity, reduces byproducts and energy consumption, and enables flexible, localized production. Its reliance on abundant propane, higher yields, and lower energy use make PDH superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, excels in meeting the global demand for propylene. Its endothermic process, optimized at high temperatures, highlights PDH's superiority over conventional methods, effectively tackling issues in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It can utilize renewable green propane, offering a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts show promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and explore more abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a non-petroleum route for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Notably, Zn-4@S-1 exhibits 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, underscoring its industrial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity by approximately three times, matching selectivity, compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct propane-to-propylene conversion enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing the supply-demand gap for propene. Compared to conventional methods, PDH provides energy savings, making it an efficient, non-oxidative route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution. PDH's efficient use of shale gas resources and selective activation of CH bonds result in higher propylene yields, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering strategic advantages over conventional methods by enhancing feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thus addressing global propylene demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, efficiently meets rising propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods reliant on scarce naphtha and crude oil. It curbs CO2 and NOx emissions, boosts propylene selectivity, and offers a sustainable alternative to energy-intensive processes, making it ideal for global propylene production needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It uses less energy and emits less CO2. With a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing issues of coke formation and sintering common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, improves feedstock availability for propylene production. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outshine Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These advancements, combined with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, effectively addressing limitations in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a cost-effective and environmentally sound solution for production. It outperforms conventional methods like MTP and WGSR by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane from shale gas, reinforcing PDH's position as a pivotal technology in meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers enhanced propylene production advantages over conventional methods: improved feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and greater efficiency and selectivity. An active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's benefits, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity, offers environmental benefits and enhanced propylene selectivity through Pt-based catalysts, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes conventional method challenges, notably improving on Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, overcomes feedstock availability issues for propylene production. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, provides a direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, offering high selectivity and onstream stability. This addresses the global demand for propylene, surpassing steam cracking capacity, and overcomes conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, favored for its abundant feedstock use and lower by-product generation, outperforms conventional naphtha steam cracking in meeting the rising global demand for propylene. Its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production are critical, addressing limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by leveraging abundant propane reserves from shale gas. This method overcomes limitations of conventional processes, such as chromium toxicity and platinum costs, by harnessing cobalt's earth abundance for long-term utility, thus driving PDH industry growth.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering superior efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, excels in selectivity and efficiency, making it a prime solution for global propylene demand. Its retrofitting potential in existing facilities adds to its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply and higher yields compared to traditional methods like steam cracking. It's more energy-efficient and minimizes byproduct formation, making it a sustainable and economically viable solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses the growing demand for propylene. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, overcoming conventional method limitations. Despite high energy demands and cracking risks, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling major challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a superior solution for global propylene demand, offering high conversion rates and selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness stems from enhanced catalytic activity and stability, making it a more efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, addressing conventional methods' fossil fuel dependency, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. As a dedicated process, PDH focuses solely on propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon outputs. The advent of cheap propane feedstock from fracking enhances PDH's efficiency, and its adaptability adds to its appeal. The significant price gap between propylene and propane, alongside a growing market, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, addresses feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost efficiency and selectivity, offering high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, showcasing an atom-economic reaction. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, PDH can approach ideal results with optimized catalysts and conditions. Its strategies, including temperature and pressure adjustments, are critical for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH's use of abundant propane, high efficiency, and selectivity with minimal by-product formation specifically addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. PDH's high efficiency and selectivity toward olefins make it a critical technology in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, boasting higher selectivity to propene, increased yields, and lower costs. This direct approach overcomes conventional methods' limitations, making it environmentally friendly and economically advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using plentiful propane, excels in propylene selectivity and efficiency, operating under gentler conditions than conventional steam cracking. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH curtails byproducts, boosts efficiency, and may lower greenhouse gas emissions, effectively tackling global demand and conventional production hurdles.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with current technology. Propane sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas serves as a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates at atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency over high-pressure methods. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR employ specific catalysts to optimize propylene yield, though catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. Efforts are underway to improve coke resistance and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from their ability to meet global propylene demand cost-effectively, utilizing shale gas-derived propane. Optimization through indium-based catalysts and research into diverse materials enhances PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, utilizing shale gas's abundant propane, emerges as a promising solution, offering advantages in feedstock availability and process efficiency. It addresses product selectivity issues faced by conventional methods. However, high costs and Pt/Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential, highlighting the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It simplifies the process, reduces costs and energy consumption, and increases product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand, especially in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, minimizing by-products and environmental impact. This sustainable, cost-effective method addresses the challenges of conventional naphtha or oil cracking, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, particularly in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for meeting rising global propylene demand, directly produces propylene with high selectivity. Enhanced by abundant and cost-effective propane from hydraulic fracturing, PDH boosts efficiency and product yield, addressing the forecasted 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages in addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and underscoring PDH's potential. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the favorable price gap between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, making it a superior choice.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane, avoids overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity and utilizing the abundance and lower cost of propane, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand and address the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene, leveraging abundant, cost-effective shale gas. This addresses the limitations of traditional methods, offering a streamlined process with wide raw material sources and lower costs, making it competitive for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using advanced catalysts, efficiently produces propylene, overcoming conventional methods' high-temperature limitations and coking issues, making it a viable solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically transforms abundant propane into propylene, addressing declining fossil oil resources and growing demand. It boasts high selectivity, enhancing efficiency and product quality, and avoids the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity and stability in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical solution for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and depletion of petroleum resources. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. However, the high temperatures required for catalytic activity in PDH can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, as propylene is a key petrochemical building block. PDH is commercially available through various licensing processes, making it the most promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits and process efficiency over oil-based methods, addressing global propylene demand challenges. Its growing role in production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and suffer from deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, have been developed for high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It ensures a reliable propylene supply amidst shifts in ethylene production from naphtha to ethane, effectively tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and reduces capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts are pivotal, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient alternative to conventional methods, especially in addressing feedstock limitations and improving product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane and the significant price gap between propane and propylene, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources, effectively addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity, offering lower costs and higher yields. Its modular plants facilitate flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels through the development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, critical for overcoming conventional methods' limitations. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures for high yields, making it advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH which requires regeneration. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, is promising but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. PDH's development could transform propene manufacturing, utilizing green propane for a key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting escalating global propylene demand, outshining conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst's high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity underscore its potential for industrial PDH processes, enhancing sustainability and efficiency with zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity, addressing limitations of current catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability of cost-efficient catalysts. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion by encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, ensuring size control and preventing loss at high temperatures, making it a superior solution for large-scale propene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing ZnO-based catalysts, offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand with enhanced efficiency and environmental benefits. Compared to conventional methods, which suffer from toxicity and ecological harm, PDH significantly boosts propene productivity by about three times, as demonstrated by the ZnO-silicalite-1 catalyst under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a stable, cost-effective propane supply for direct conversion to propylene. This non-oxidative process excels in efficiency and selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a stable and abundant feedstock, improving on naphtha's limitations. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in propane boosts propylene yields, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production, a vital raw material for diverse products. It boasts higher energy efficiency and lower CO2 and NOx emissions, outperforming conventional methods. PDH's superior product selectivity for propylene directly addresses the limitations of traditional processes, making it an environmentally friendly and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining energy-intensive naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing issues like coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, tapping into abundant shale gas, improves feedstock availability and excels in process efficiency and product selectivity. It uses advanced catalysts for superior reactivity and stability, offering competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, effectively addressing challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as the preferred method for production, excelling in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its high conversion rates and environmental benefits, as noted in Quote 4, make it particularly attractive. Advances in shale gas extraction, highlighted in Quote 5, further promote the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene, reinforcing PDH's position as the most promising pathway.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers a promising solution for propylene production. It ensures better feedstock availability, potentially reduces costs, and simplifies the production process by directly yielding propylene. PDH's enhanced efficiency and selectivity, further improved by an advanced catalyst, address the limitations of conventional methods, making it a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its strengths in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness are notable. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly tackling limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand challenges, notably improving on conventional methods' limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, though widely used, hinder stability and selectivity, impacting production efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, favored for its abundant shale gas feedstock, addresses limitations of conventional propylene production methods by improving feedstock availability and boosting process efficiency. Seeking anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts to enhance cyclic coke combustion stability, PDH emerges as a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct and efficient route for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with good onstream stability and high selectivity, make PDH a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst rising global propylene demand, offers key advantages over conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. It boasts abundant feedstock, lower by-product generation, enhanced feedstock availability, improved process efficiency, and better product selectivity, directly addressing production constraints faced by traditional approaches.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its reliance on earth-abundant cobalt suggests long-term viability, making PDH a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, offers superior efficiency and a reduced environmental footprint, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a superior solution for escalating global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply and minimizing byproducts. Its streamlined process reduces dependency on oil-based feedstocks and eliminates complex separation, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers a strategic advantage in propylene production. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements that challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH effectively mitigates these issues through an active site isolation strategy, significantly curtailing side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, as evidenced by recent developments in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. It outperforms conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The enhancement of catalytic activity and stability through Ni incorporation into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite underscores PDH's potential to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which have lower selectivity and higher CO2 emissions. Its economic appeal is bolstered by the availability of low-cost propane from shale gas and the growing propylene market. PDH plants' adaptability to various reactions further enhances their value in the chemical industry, making PDH a leading choice for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas from hydraulic fracturing, ensures reliable feedstock for propylene production. Advanced ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite high energy consumption, optimized conditions and catalysts enable PDH to closely approximate ideal conversion rates, reducing costs. By adjusting temperature and pressure, PDH increases propane conversion, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and product yield, utilizing widely available propane for high conversion rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology strategically addresses the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. By leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties ensure efficient processes, while selective activation of the CH bond over the CC bond enhances product selectivity. Compared to alternative pathways like methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH's unique properties make it a promising method for propylene production, specifically addressing the need for efficient and selective olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity to propene, which results in increased yields and reduced costs, making it an environmentally friendly and advantageous alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene yields and minimal byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity and curb unwanted byproducts, making the process more sustainable with lower energy use and emissions, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a feedstock, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, making it a promising method for propylene production. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process compared to conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with propane dehydrogenation being carried out in the presence or absence of oxidants.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high stability and selectivity, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Research into catalysts, notably indium-based materials, further boosts PDH's potential, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, is gaining traction due to abundant shale-gas reserves. It effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods. However, the development of cost-effective and eco-friendly catalysts is a critical hurdle for PDH's progress.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its simplified process in a single reactor reduces costs, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, especially in shale-rich regions. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cleaner and more targeted. This technology is well-suited to meet global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses global demand challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas condensates, rich in propane, are extracted on a massive scale due to hydraulic fracturing, making feedstock cheaper and plentiful. PDH's proprietary process exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, except in the Eurozone, spotlights PDH technology's advantages in feedstock flexibility, efficiency, and product selectivity. Cost-effective shale gas extraction has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, escalating its price and bolstering PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is contingent on the propane-propylene price differential, aligning with current market conditions. Its on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity, directly addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, effectively converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. It demonstrates superior efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods, thanks to its green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, making it a pivotal solution in propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, addressing challenges in conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity and regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalysts' Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, highlighting PDH's efficient feedstock utilization compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, efficiently addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. By utilizing abundant and cheaper propane, PDH offers a cost-effective solution to meet the escalating global demand, overcoming limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, offers a cost-effective solution for propylene production. Its single-feed/single-product process enhances efficiency and addresses the limitations of traditional methods, which struggle to meet the expanded market demand. PDH's advantages, including a wide source of raw materials and lower production costs, make it a competitive alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses propylene production challenges by enhancing efficiency and selectivity, despite requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability. Nanostructured catalysts improve propyl intermediate adsorption, overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing challenges posed by decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing global demand for propylene. By bypassing intermediate steps, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propane conversion method, is a commercially viable and efficient solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a key petrochemical used in diverse products. It offers an alternative less reliant on depleting petroleum resources. However, the endothermic PDH process, requiring temperatures above 550 C, leads to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing high-selectivity and stable catalysts under severe conditions remains a challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production, with its significance growing due to new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It notably addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a critical solution for meeting global propylene demand. PDH's capability to tackle these issues is particularly significant given the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production from naphtha crackers, due to the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. The development of active, selective, and regenerative vanadium-based catalysts further enhances PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike traditional methods constrained by depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. This makes PDH a superior alternative to conventional production methods, which struggle to meet market demand due to petroleum depletion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers a single-step conversion to propylene, minimizing byproducts and energy use. This results in higher yields and lower costs compared to multi-step processes. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's abundant feedstock, high efficiency, and selectivity make it a superior economic and environmental choice for propylene production, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, critical for meeting escalating global propylene demand, excels by utilizing an endothermic reaction that necessitates high temperatures for optimal yield. Its focus on advanced catalysts underscores its superiority in feedstock flexibility, operational efficiency, and selectivity, making it a leading solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane. Non-oxidative PDH avoids coke formation, while ODH-O2 using boron shows promise for selectivity without coke. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally beneficial but yields are lower. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, using abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently bridges the global propylene demand-supply gap. It boasts high propylene selectivity and yields valuable hydrogen, making it eco-friendly and cost-effective, thus ideal in today's industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based Zn@S-1 catalysts, offers advantages over conventional methods by providing feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and superior product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, a non-toxic and earth-abundant alternative, exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, crucial for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, efficiently addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Notably, it achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing its superior efficiency and product selectivity without relying on non-noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's environmental compatibility and productivity, achieving three times higher propene output at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under relevant conditions, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source, directly converting it to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. Its non-oxidative process enhances efficiency, addressing energy consumption issues and demand-supply gaps, making it a leading propylene production technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from diverse sources like shale gas, offers a stable and abundant feedstock, surpassing naphtha's limitations. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, meeting the escalating demand for propylene production. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields, making it a promising and cost-effective method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to steam cracking and FCC. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers superior propylene selectivity, enhanced energy efficiency, and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing the growing demand for propylene, a vital chemical raw material. Its direct conversion process minimizes byproducts, making it an eco-friendly and efficient solution compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and lower CO2 emissions. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing issues of coke formation and sintering common in conventional methods, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces oil dependency. Superior vanadium oxide catalysts enhance reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving efficiency and selectivity. These advantages lead to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the preferred production method. PDH outshines alternatives by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the optimal pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance propane conversion, reinforcing PDH's position as the most promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, offers a direct, cost-effective, and superior method for propylene production. It excels in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, surpassing traditional methods. A superior catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout method for propylene production, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation and extended reactive longevity make it eco-friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the escalating global demand for propylene effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers superior feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity over conventional methods, though Pt-based catalysts present short-term stability and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing high temperatures for propane conversion, leverages abundant shale gas resources to produce propylene, offering a significant advantage over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, PDH remains a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in selectivity and onstream stability, addressing conventional propylene production limitations. Its novel catalysts tackle issues like high platinum costs and chromium toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to naphtha steam cracking. It significantly reduces by-products and is a promising solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical chemical in various industries, as fossil energy consumption rises.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a viable solution for meeting growing propylene demand, leveraging ample propane reserves from shale gas. Conventional methods using Cr and Pt catalysts are hindered by toxicity and high costs, respectively. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to Co's earth abundance, ensure long-term viability and address the industry's need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by efficiently converting propane to propylene. It addresses challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, boosts propylene yields, and provides environmental benefits by avoiding energy-intensive steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing conventional methods' limitations in meeting global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, minimizing byproducts. This streamlined process makes PDH a sustainable and economically viable alternative to traditional methods, which have lower yields and complex separation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. Despite high energy demands and risks of cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively boosts selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. It offers cost and toxicity benefits, enhanced catalytic performance, and achieves high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, directly tackling challenges posed by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering key advantages over fossil fuel-dependent conventional methods with low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene, minimizing byproducts. Fracking has made propane feedstocks exceptionally affordable for PDH. PDH facilities are versatile, capable of various reactions, which, combined with the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional propylene production methods. Advanced ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a recent focus, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2 through an atom-economic reaction, closely approaching ideal results with optimized conditions and catalysts. This energy-intensive process enhances propane conversion, reducing costs and addressing limitations of conventional methods. Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as a critical supplement to traditional SC and FCC methods amid rising global demand. By leveraging abundant shale gas, PDH ensures superior feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamic properties and high selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, specifically address challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and product selectivity. The use of alkanes, particularly abundant in shale gas, makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing need for propylene, with its unique ability to selectively activate CH bonds over CC bonds, ensuring high selectivity towards olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane feedstocks, offers higher propene selectivity for increased yields and lower costs, directly addressing global demand for propylene while overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance paraffinic CH bond activation, maximizing propylene selectivity. Direct propane conversion in PDH improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the surge in natural gas production for a steady propane supply, offers key advantages for propylene production. It simplifies reactant and product distribution, reduces investment, and integrates smoothly with existing technology. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, though ongoing efforts aim to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use distinct catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at lower pressure and Oleflex and STAR at higher pressures.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the growing global demand for propylene and the cost-effectiveness of shale gas-derived propane. Ongoing research on catalysts, including indium-based and nanocarbon materials, enhances PDH's stability and selectivity, directly addressing conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, like Oleflex and Catofin, is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. However, the high cost and toxicity of catalysts in PDH processes highlight the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives to fully realize its potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, achieves higher propylene selectivity and reduces energy consumption and costs, offering a simplified and targeted process that enhances efficiency and yield, making it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes by-products, maximizes economic benefits, and addresses the growing global demand for propylene, especially in shale gas-rich regions, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, directly producing propylene without byproducts, addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, it utilizes abundant and cheaper propane feedstock. PDH's selectivity in producing only propylene boosts efficiency, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. With propylene demand projected to rise, PDH is crucial in meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, tackling feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity issues. Enhanced fracking (quote 2) has slashed gas costs (quote 3), favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking (quote 4) has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability (quote 5 and 6), driven by the propane-propylene price gap. PDH selectively yields propylene (quote 7), optimized for polymer-quality purity, making it a favorable on-purpose technique.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently transforms abundant propane into propylene, tackling feedstock availability issues. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting escalating global propylene demand. PDH's potential to address environmental and economic challenges underscores its role as a green and cost-effective method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency over ODH, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH advantageous, especially due to propane's abundant availability as a feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high selectivity and cost-effectiveness, addresses the inefficiencies of conventional propylene production methods. Leveraging abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers an efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    