Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effective raw material supply. PDH offers lower production costs, making it competitive and addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but faces issues due to its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the need for intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and depletion of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH directly converts propane to propylene. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH facilitates side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, presenting a challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a highly efficient method for production, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced the industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, but the availability of ethylene from ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas disrupted this balance, necessitating on-purpose methods for propylene. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process to meet large propylene demand, addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it economically advantageous. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without depending on depleting petroleum resources, offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, resulting in lower energy consumption and higher yields compared to multi-step processes. Its modular implementation allows for flexible and localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs, making PDH a more economically and environmentally viable option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to the growing global demand. It addresses challenges by utilizing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, crucial for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, which requires high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research on lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the global demand-supply gap. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process is pivotal in today's industrial context, offering a sustainable alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, PDH offers a non-petroleum-based route. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, developed due to the scarcity and toxicity of current PDH catalyst components, exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability. This demonstrates its potential for industrial PDH processes, with propylene selectivity reaching 97% at optimal conditions, highlighting PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand challenges, features a catalyst with high activity, selectivity, and stability. By encapsulating NPs in an NC layer, the catalyst avoids noble metals, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after 6 hours, showcasing its efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst, developed for PDH, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which often result in a gap between demand and supply of propene due to high energy consumption. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology used today.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, improving availability compared to naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. With higher selectivity for propylene, PDH directly addresses the limitations of traditional processes, which produce a range of hydrocarbons. As a basic chemical raw material, propylene's demand necessitates more sustainable production methods, making PDH an attractive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional thermal or catalytic cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus addressing key challenges in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane from abundant shale gas resources, enhancing feedstock availability and reducing dependence on traditional oil-based feedstocks. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods. These catalysts contribute to PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing limitations in conventional production methods. PDH offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further promote the conversion of low-valued propane, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene from propane, offering lower costs due to the use of abundant shale gas and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, widely used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, as per relevant quotes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It benefits from the increased availability of propane from shale gas exploration, making it advantageous for feedstock utilization. The technology faces challenges with catalyst deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency and product selectivity without requiring oxychlorination regeneration. PDH's ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production highlights its promise in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propylene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. The development of such catalysts is crucial for PDH technology, potentially offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet demands due to fossil energy consumption. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key technology. PDH operates at high temperatures and faces challenges due to the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum in current catalysts, necessitating new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, with their promising performance and earth's abundant supply of cobalt, are seen as a viable long-term solution for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, which are widely produced. It can be easily integrated into existing facilities, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, as evidenced by its increasing development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propene production, addressing global demand and conventional method limitations. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, making it superior in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The introduction of Ni into zinc-based catalysts enhances catalytic activity and stability, further boosting PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. As an on-purpose process, PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding the creation of unwanted hydrocarbons. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. Additionally, PDH plants are highly adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price disparity between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing enhance its viability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, improve process efficiency and product selectivity with high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, both high-value products. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized catalysts and conditions enable near-ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature, lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, improves conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by using abundant propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution. PDH reactions, being thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, offer process efficiency advantages over conventional methods. The technology's ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs. PDH utilizes abundant propane from various sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, ensuring feedstock availability. This direct process is more environmentally friendly and efficient, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes enhance paraffinic CH bond activation and reduce CC cleavage, leading to high propylene selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas production. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, reducing energy consumption and costs. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, particularly those using indium-based catalysts, show promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. Ongoing research into catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to improve PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas are driving interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, featuring the Oleflex and Catofin processes, addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing feedstock availability. However, the high cost of the PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst in Oleflex and the toxicity of the Cr/Al2O3 catalyst in Catofin limit PDH's potential. Developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, bypassing the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process, reducing costs. Its focus on propane conversion leads to higher yields of propylene and potentially lower operating costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions, directly targets propylene production, meeting demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. PDH leverages abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock from shale gas condensates, facilitated by hydraulic fracturing. This technology's selectivity for propylene over other products enhances efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional methods. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's role in meeting this demand is critical, offering a more efficient and targeted production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs by 75% since 2005, making it a prime feedstock for chemical production. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating a favorable market for PDH. This technology's profitability is tied to the price differential between propane and propylene, currently advantageous. PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in converting abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering benefits in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH highlight improved process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, which ensures availability. It also avoids overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. This addresses challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of a single feedstock (propane) and single product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH's use of nanostructured catalysts improves efficiency and selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. The process, though endothermic and equilibrium-limited, avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, enhancing catalyst activity and stability. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propene improves process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a viable alternative as petroleum resources dwindle. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, particularly those with CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. The use of Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds to re-disperse Pt is also environmentally harmful. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, particularly in feedstock availability and efficiency. The disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production due to the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas has necessitated on-purpose methods for propylene, with PDH being recognized as an efficient process capable of meeting the large demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high process efficiency with a notable conversion rate of propane to propylene, and high selectivity that minimizes by-product formation. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH has gained attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It offers a high-efficiency and low-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The literature highlights the need for novel catalysts, with vanadium-based options showing promise due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages the abundant propane supply and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in meeting growing demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources. This contrasts with conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to petroleum depletion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This results in lower operating costs, higher yields, and a more sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method compared to conventional steam cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "The growing demand for propylene highlights the need for efficient propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. PDH's endothermic reaction requires high-performance catalysts with activity, stability, and selectivity to achieve high yields, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional propylene production challenges. PDH uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) uses boron-based catalysts, offering high selectivity and activity without coke issues. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 needs intrinsic activity boosts. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production. PDH utilizes abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It overcomes challenges of conventional methods by offering non-petroleum based propylene production with significant industrial relevance. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, and possess regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's potential for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods by offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in environment-friendly and cost-efficient catalysts. The encapsulation of nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support controls the size of ZnO nanoparticles, enhancing their performance. This results in a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's superiority in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which often result in energy-intensive processes and a demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes propane, abundant from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, including shale gas, ensuring stable feedstock availability. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially offering higher yields compared to traditional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method improves feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental benefits, and improved product selectivity. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike traditional methods that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient and emits less CO2 and NOx, making it a sustainable choice. Its high selectivity for propylene, compared to conventional processes, makes it ideal for meeting the growing demand for this critical chemical raw material. PDH's use of propane, derived from natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability and lower emissions, addressing the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It uses less energy and emits less CO2. With a Pt catalyst supported on alumina and a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, which are major causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability over conventional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in traditional plants, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitiveness, low cost, and low toxicity, making it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, a key industrial component, saw a demand of around 116 million tons in 2020. Considering cost and environmental impact, PDH is favored for producing high-value propylene. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have increased the availability of low-valued propane, further promoting its conversion to propylene through PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs due to shale gas use, and a more efficient process. The development of a selective and durable catalyst for PDH could further enhance process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH is poised to address the rising global need for propylene, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, as highlighted in relevant literature.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas exploration highlights its advantage in feedstock availability for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand and limitations in increasing production through steam cracking. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. The development of novel catalysts is crucial due to the high price of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing demand for propylene and the abundance of propane from shale-gas deposits highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising alternative, offering long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, addressing the need for new catalysts and enhancing PDH's position as a leading method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It avoids the energy-intensive steps of steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, offering greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers superior process efficiency and propylene selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, making PDH a cost-effective and promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It minimizes byproducts, ensuring a more streamlined, cost-effective, and sustainable production method compared to traditional oil-based processes, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles high reaction temperature issues, which cause cracking and coking, by employing the effective active site isolation strategy, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. By introducing moderate Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, PDH enhances catalytic activity and stability, crucial for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap propane feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology, and its adaptable factories enhance profitability, especially considering the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which enhance process efficiency and product selectivity with high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by its ability to increase propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins (MTO), Fischer-Tropsch to olefins (FTO), and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) processes. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This technology specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the increasing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from sources like shale gas. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's higher product selectivity and reduced byproduct formation make it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which researchers are addressing. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to improve PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have spotlighted catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising method for propylene production. PDH processes, primarily the Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, address challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, utilizing a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher process efficiency and product selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, particularly from abundant shale gas resources. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by not relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, offering enhanced feedstock availability. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving superior propane conversion and propylene yield. This sustainable and cost-effective method directly targets propane to propylene conversion, minimizing by-products, and aligns with increasing propylene demand and shale gas exploitation, making PDH a preferred commercial production choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It excels in feedstock availability, utilizing shale gas condensates rich in propane, made abundant by hydraulic fracturing. This technology boosts process efficiency and product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene, avoiding hybrid products. PDH's regulation of reaction conditions enhances propylene selectivity and productivity, making it a critical solution for meeting the projected 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its ability to produce a specific olefin, propylene, rather than a mixture of products, with industrial processes optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, offers advantages in feedstock availability by converting abundant propane to propylene. It demonstrates higher process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of CoSiBeta for PDH highlight improved efficiency and selectivity. However, conventional CrOx and Pt catalysts, while active, have drawbacks. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underlines PDH's focus on environmental impact and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides abundant and cost-effective propane, addressing feedstock concerns. PDH inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances non-noble metal Co-based catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. This addresses challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' inefficiencies. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock process, using propane to directly produce propylene, which enhances efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane into value-added propene. It directly addresses challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation. PDH improves feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propene, reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and direct conversion of propane to propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by not relying on depleting petroleum resources. PDH is commercially viable, providing the shortest and most cost-effective route for propylene production. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking technologies. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, addressing sustainability concerns. With new PDH plants under construction, its contribution to propylene production is expanding. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its efficiency in meeting the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. With the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane and shale gas, the balance in propylene supply was disrupted, necessitating on-purpose methods for its production. PDH emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency with a superior conversion rate of propane to propylene and high selectivity, reducing by-product formation. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH has gained attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It's considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking. The literature highlights the need for novel, non-noble metal-based catalysts, with vanadium-based catalysts emerging as a promising choice due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle to meet growing demand due to depleting petroleum resources. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without reliance on dwindling oil, making it an effective solution for the petrochemical industry's needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, unlike multi-step processes. This results in lower operating costs, higher yields, and lower energy consumption, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It emphasizes the development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, crucial for propane dehydrogenation. The endothermic nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures for high yields, highlighting PDH's efficiency and selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically over Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and minimizing overoxidation. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 catalysts need improved CO2 activity. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation, aiming to transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the gap between supply and demand. It utilizes abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating PDH's potential for industrial application. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to the challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability of cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals. By encapsulating nanoparticles into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating its efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's advantages, showing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock for stable and cheap light alkanes. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially achieve higher propylene yields and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a strategic choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, efficiently produces propylene with lower CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. It offers higher product selectivity, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and environmental impact. Unlike traditional oil-based methods, PDH's reliance on propane improves feedstock availability and reduces dependency on oil. Its energy efficiency and reduced emissions make it a sustainable choice, while its direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, making PDH the most promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These benefits contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, crucial for industrial applications, faced a significant demand gap in 2020. Among techniques like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered propane conversion from shale gas, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering better feedstock availability from abundant propane sourced from shale gas reserves. It directly produces propylene, potentially enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH's benefits include lower production costs due to the use of abundant shale gas, a more direct production process, and the development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst, which could further improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering improvements over conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for advancements in this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained attention for propylene production, especially with the increased availability of shale gas. Supported platinum-based catalysts are active but prone to deactivation by coke, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources offers a significant advantage in feedstock availability, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially as demand for propene outstrips steam cracking capacity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane, suggesting PDH may offer process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. The development of these catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones, making PDH a promising route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, making it a favorable alternative to conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands. PDH's efficiency and selectivity in propylene production offer a solution to the challenges faced by traditional processes, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and by-product management.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increasing propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Conventional methods, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face limitations due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, driving the need for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a viable alternative, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term utility, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane as feedstock, easy retrofitting of existing facilities, and higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods in light of growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, achieves higher yields with lower byproduct formation, and is more energy-efficient, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, bolstered by shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and high reaction temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key industry issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging widely available propane from shale gas, is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a key industrial raw material. It stands out for its high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, offering lower cost and nontoxicity through non-noble zinc-based catalysts. The addition of moderate Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, addressing limitations of conventional production methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from the low cost of propane-rich shale gas, a byproduct of fracking, making it economically advantageous. Additionally, PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability, especially considering the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability. The development of a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 showcases high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, is atom-economic, converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized catalysts and conditions can closely achieve ideal results. Though energy-intensive, PDH's high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, using abundant propane, address conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to meet growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties ensure process efficiency, surpassing conventional methods like SC and FCC. The technology addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane as feedstock. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of Pt-based catalysts ensures high selectivity to propylene, directly converting propane with low activity to CC cleavage. This process offers improved efficiency and selectivity, operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts and offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. It utilizes propane, abundant due to shale gas and natural gas production, as a feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC of naphtha, which are more complex and costly. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues are challenges, but efforts are made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, such as those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to enhance PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, specifically the Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers a promising solution to the challenges of conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for the further advancement of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By directly converting propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH utilizes a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. This process offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH's single-reactor design simplifies the process, reducing costs and offering higher efficiency, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. Its targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production. PDH converts low-value propane, abundant in shale gas, into high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective technology is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, meeting increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity, while addressing the projected 2-3% annual demand growth by 2035, underscoring its scientific and economic significance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene, currently favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose techniques, yield specific olefins, not mixtures, and are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant and low-cost propane into value-added propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst used in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The pursuit of a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underscores PDH's aim to address environmental impact and product selectivity challenges associated with traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas for feedstock, its ability to prevent overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and its high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. This addresses the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' inefficiencies. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of propane to produce propylene directly, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. Compared to traditional methods, PDH offers lower production costs, making it a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH offers high propylene yields and activity. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by economically converting low-cost propane to value-added propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability in other processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the scarcity of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH is the shortest and most cost-effective route for propylene production. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions, such as cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology with high-efficiency catalysts that maintain selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health and cost issues, with Pt sintering and Cl2 usage posing environmental concerns. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NP, for efficient dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an emerging method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock. It boasts high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene and high selectivity, minimizing by-products. PDH's modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundant propane supply and significant price gap between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, by ensuring sufficient propylene output without reliance on oil.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. Its modular plant design allows for flexible, localized production, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is emerging as a promising solution, particularly due to the development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts. These catalysts are essential for overcoming the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the importance of such catalysts in meeting the increasing demand for propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, avoids coke formation, and requires catalysts that improve propene selectivity. ODH-O2, using boron, is promising but must limit overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally beneficial, needs enhanced CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should focus on abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to advance green propane-based propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap. It utilizes cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient method is favored in the current industrial context, offering a viable alternative to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising technology for propylene production, offering an alternative to non-petroleum-based methods. It addresses challenges in conventional production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route, but the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising alternative. Zinc-based catalysts, like Zn@S-1, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of PDH for industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The development of a ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity by about three times, maintaining similar propene selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which often result in a gap between demand and supply of propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has become an emerging technology, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH specifically addresses challenges by improving process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, improving on energy efficiency, and reducing CO2 and NOx emissions. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH offers higher product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts. This makes PDH less dependent on oil-based feedstocks, more energy-efficient, and environmentally friendly, aligning with the growing demand for propylene in various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability, reducing dependence on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, with added benefits of competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020. Among techniques like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have boosted the conversion of low-valued propane from shale gas, enhancing propane utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging abundant shale gas reserves for direct propylene production. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods, including enhanced feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for improved efficiency and selectivity. The focus on developing advanced catalysts for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and heavy oil cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering improvements over conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity, PDH presents a promising solution to enhance propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active for PDH, face challenges from coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to enhance process efficiency. PDH's ability to effectively use shale gas as feedstock highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a promising alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. These catalysts demonstrate good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH may provide a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it a superior alternative. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet escalating demands as fossil energy resources dwindle. PDH's efficiency and selectivity in propylene production offer a solution to these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increased propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which suffer from the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum, by utilizing cobalt-based catalysts. The abundance of cobalt ensures PDH's long-term viability, making it a favorable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, which can be sourced from various petrochemical processes. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces energy consumption, and minimizes byproduct formation, making it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the growing availability of light alkanes from shale gas. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key industry challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propene, a vital raw material for various industrial products. It stands out for its cost-effectiveness and nontoxicity, particularly through the use of zinc-based catalysts, which, when enhanced with Ni, exhibit improved catalytic activity and stability. PDH specifically overcomes conventional production challenges by leveraging abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process specifically targets propylene, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective. PDH factories' adaptability and the price differential between propylene and propane, coupled with growing market demand, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. This addresses feedstock availability issues. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, both high value-added products. Its atom-economic nature and endothermic reaction are optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by increasing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and new catalyst exploration, ensuring relevance to engineering practice. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, including natural gas and refinery off-gases. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive solution to meet global propylene demand and overcome limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging widely available propane from sources like shale gas. PDH offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking, the conventional method. This efficiency and selectivity are enhanced by Pt-based catalysts, which activate paraffinic CH bonds effectively while minimizing CC cleavage. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts, and operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Its higher product selectivity and lower byproduct formation make PDH a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas production, including shale gas, ensures a steady and economical feedstock. PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, operate under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH remains a favorable method due to its operational simplicity and economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies offer potential advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to improve PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits highlight the potential of catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, address feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, providing a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor design enhances process efficiency and sustainability, making it a cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, outperforming traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting it directly into propylene with high efficiency and selectivity. This makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions rich in shale gas. PDH's targeted conversion process minimizes by-products, offering a cleaner and more focused production method that meets growing propylene demand while reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without hybrid products, enhances selectivity. Regulating reaction conditions further boosts propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking technologies have led to a drop in gas costs and a shift from naphtha to ethane as feedstock, making shale gas attractive for chemical production. The reduced supply of propylene and its rising price have created opportunities for PDH, which is highly profitable due to the price difference between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, propylene, rather than a mixture of products, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of CoSiBeta catalysts in PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. However, conventional CrOx and Pt catalysts, while highly active, suffer from high costs, environmental issues, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, which addresses feedstock availability. It inhibits overoxidation, improving efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. PDH's high propylene selectivity, as noted in Figure 1c, distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its anti-coke stability, making it advantageous for propylene production. While specific advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability are not detailed, PDH's enhanced performance suggests broader applicability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It uses propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. The shift to unconventional natural gas sources, like shale gas, ensures a steady and affordable supply of raw materials. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It ensures high yields but requires high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by directly converting propane to propene, utilizing an abundant and cheaper feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It addresses the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial petrochemical, by providing an alternative route independent of depleting petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and requires high temperatures, which can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology, particularly in improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from CrOx and high costs and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts. Recent advancements have led to eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency in meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. With the balance of ethylene and propylene production disrupted by the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, PDH emerges as a solution to address the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and low cost. This technology addresses the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without reliance on diminishing oil reserves, making it an effective solution for the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and scarce naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plant design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. Compared to steam cracking, PDH has lower operating costs, higher propylene yields, and is more sustainable, making it a promising and advantageous method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, which are essential for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction requiring high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation issues. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise without coke problems but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, needs activity enhancement. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research on lower energy propene production from green propane could revolutionize its manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the gap between supply and demand. It utilizes abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. Zn-based catalysts, like Zn-4@S-1, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating high efficiency and regeneration capability, thus highlighting PDH's potential in overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in propene production. A key challenge is developing cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. The solution involves encapsulating nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, grown in situ from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support. This design controls the size of ZnO nanoparticles and prevents their loss at high temperatures. The catalysts demonstrate high performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours on stream, showcasing PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and the need for ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of ZnO-based catalysts further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cheap feedstock supply. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is efficient, offering process efficiency and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, which often result in a demand-supply gap due to high energy consumption. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by offering an alternative production route, independent of specific feedstocks, with potentially higher efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH uses abundant propane, unlike the oil-based feedstocks of traditional processes, improving availability. It is more energy-efficient and produces fewer CO2 and NOx emissions, making it environmentally friendly. PDH has higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional methods that consume significant energy and emit high CO2. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, mitigating catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers advantages in feedstock availability, reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These advantages contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional techniques. In 2020, the demand reached approximately 116 million tons, highlighting the need for efficient production methods. PDH, alongside MTP and WGSR, has gained attention, but its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, reinforcing PDH's role in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, leveraging abundant shale gas feedstock. PDH offers enhanced feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process for propylene production, improving efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. The development of a superior PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. Notably, it tackles issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, have short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting areas for improvement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to irreversible sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's advantage in feedstock utilization and process efficiency, despite challenges with catalyst stability, makes it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show promise for PDH, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods. This suggests PDH may offer a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet demands as fossil energy consumption increases. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a superior alternative, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and the abundance of propane from shale-gas deposits highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum, which hinder further industry development. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH processes are promising, with the earth's abundance of cobalt ensuring long-term utility, making PDH a more efficient and sustainable option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering greater resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional methods in light of growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene conversion, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable and economically viable method ensures stable propylene production, with higher yields and lower energy consumption compared to traditional oil-based methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, as evidenced by its growing development and effectiveness in tackling side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the global demand for propene, a key industrial raw material. It offers lower cost and nontoxicity over Pt and Cr-based catalysts, with enhanced catalytic activity and stability through Ni introduction. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely on fossil fuels and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient PDH catalysts, such as a ZnO-based catalyst supported on silicalite-1, showcases high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Its atom-economic nature ensures high product yield with minimal waste. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable results close to the ideal state, despite thermodynamic limitations. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by its ability to increase propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically tackles conventional method limitations by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, and minimizing by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene compared to conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane feedstocks from various sources, including natural gas and petrochemical processes, addressing challenges of feedstock availability. PDH's direct and efficient process results in higher yields and lower production costs, making it an attractive solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from various sources, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer high propylene selectivity, minimizing unwanted byproduct formation. PDH improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. It offers higher product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the boom in natural gas production. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, unlike conventional methods that require higher pressures. Catalysts like PtSn-based ones are effective for PDH but face challenges with deactivation and stability. The process avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making PDH more efficient and selective for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Despite drawbacks such as high costs and environmental concerns, PDH technologies are being optimized through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, which show promise for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to enhance PDH technology, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas are driving interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH, with its Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of current catalysts remain significant hurdles, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This offers an advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher propylene selectivity, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. These features make PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly uses propane, offering greater feedstock flexibility. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method better meets the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. PDH leverages the abundance of propane from shale gas condensates, made possible by hydraulic fracturing, ensuring cheaper and plentiful feedstock. This technology's selectivity for propylene over other products enhances efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's development is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemical production. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating a favorable market for PDH. This technology, being on-purpose, yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products. The current price gap between propane and propylene enhances PDH's profitability.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. Designing a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene remains a priority, highlighting PDH's efforts to overcome conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides cheap and plentiful propane, addressing feedstock availability. PDH curbs overoxidation, enhancing process efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from hybrid MTO and FTO products, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. This enhancement makes PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process using propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This enhances efficiency and leverages abundant raw materials from unconventional gas sources like shale, ensuring cost-effectiveness. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but requires high temperatures, causing coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. The process, while endothermic and equilibrium-limited, avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, enhancing catalyst activity and stability. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propene improves process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses conventional method challenges by providing an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process's high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH, particularly in improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have health and cost issues, with Cr(VI) toxicity and Pt sintering leading to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, showing high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading solution for meeting the high global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, emerging as a critical on-purpose method for propylene production in the disrupted balance caused by ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs compared to traditional petrochemical plants. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, outperforming conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing abundant propane from shale gas production as feedstock, PDH reduces dependence on expensive and less available naphtha. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This technology's high yields, lower operating costs, and environmental viability make it a sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to address the growing global demand for propene. It requires developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, especially considering the endothermic nature of the reaction, which necessitates high temperatures for high yields, making it a promising method compared to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active catalysts, typically Pt or Cr based, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes renewable green propane, gaining traction as a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) shows promise with boron-based catalysts, despite overoxidation risks. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and focus on CO2 activation at lower temperatures. Research and development of lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It leverages widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. The development of alternative catalysts, like Zn@S-1, is crucial due to the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium. Zn@S-1 exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH catalysts achieve high activity, selectivity, and stability. These catalysts demonstrate a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, showcasing PDH's superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic and ecologically harmful substances. A new ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock for a stable and cost-effective supply of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is an efficient process, offering advantages in product selectivity and process efficiency over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often struggle to meet demand. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in current use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. This results in higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, reducing dependency on specific feedstocks and improving efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene. Unlike traditional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. Its superior efficiency and reduced emissions make it a sustainable choice. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it ideal for meeting the growing demand for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Using a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, leveraging propane from abundant shale gas resources to address feedstock availability challenges. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which demonstrate better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods. These benefits contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, essential for industrial applications, saw a demand of 116 million tons in 2020. PDH, favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental impact, is seen as the optimal pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in utilizing abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves for direct propylene production. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods, including better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH is crucial for enhancing its efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable alternative to traditional naphtha and heavy oil cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting escalating global propylene demand, despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and selectivity, which are critical issues in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for high propane conversion, offers potential advantages in propylene production. It leverages supported platinum-based catalysts, though these are prone to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to enhance process efficiency. PDH's renewed interest, driven by increased propane supply from shale gas exploration, highlights its role in utilizing abundant resources for propylene production, addressing feedstock availability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propylene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane. The development of novel catalysts for PDH is crucial, considering the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity. PDH specifically addresses the inability to further increase propylene demand in the steam cracking process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands. Propylene, a key chemical for producing various derivatives, benefits from PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution in the face of fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a viable solution. Conventional methods, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer promise, bolstered by Co's earth abundance, making PDH a sustainable and efficient choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, easily retrofitting existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional methods in light of increasing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces energy consumption, and increases yields compared to steam cracking. PDH's high selectivity minimizes byproducts, streamlining production and making it a sustainable, cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's challenges are mitigated by the active site isolation strategy, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. This strategic approach effectively tackles the production of undesired C1 and C2 molecules and coke, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in addressing the global propylene demand, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness, nontoxicity, and improved catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a leading solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by utilizing cheap propane-rich shale gas, made possible by fracking. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing efficiency. The technology's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propylene and propane, alongside growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 supports high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Its endothermic nature is limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, yet optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal outcomes. Despite high energy consumption, increasing propane conversion in a single pass reduces costs. Strategies include temperature adjustment and pressure control. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions, crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures availability and high conversion rates, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its environmental friendliness and cost-effectiveness make it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproduct formation, and operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. This makes PDH a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the shale gas boom. PDH operates efficiently without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production. Commercial PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts but face challenges with deactivation and stability. Despite these, PDH remains a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks in existing PDH methods, ongoing research on indium-based catalysts showcases potential for enhanced stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in conventional production methods. The investigation of various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, reflects efforts to optimize PDH technology for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing the Oleflex and Catofin technologies, face challenges due to the high cost of Pt metal and the toxicity of Cr catalysts, respectively. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is a critical challenge for PDH's further development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This offers an advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock, achieving high process efficiency, and offering superior product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane into propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted conversion process results in minimal by-product formation, meeting growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, not hybrid products, boosts selectivity. Regulating reaction conditions to inhibit side reactions enhances propylene productivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, specifically propylene, making it an optimal choice in the current market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues of cost, environmental impact, and deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underscores PDH's aim to overcome conventional production challenges, aligning with the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species, tuned by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to anti-coke stability, enhancing PDH performance. This method also holds promise for feedstock availability, though specific advantages over conventional methods are not detailed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges. Enhanced by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective, efficient route to meet growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), which enhances process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. This addresses the limitations of traditional methods, which struggle to meet demand due to reliance on naphtha and coal cracking. PDH's advantages, including lower production costs and wide raw material availability, make it a competitive choice in the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, as an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, PDH faces issues like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its economic competitiveness, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. This process boosts efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not dependent on scarce petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, particularly improving catalyst efficiency with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency over oil-based cracking technologies. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, addressing the growing global demand sustainably. New PDH plants are being constructed, increasing its contribution to propylene production. However, conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt species have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency. It is considered the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene, offering advantages in product selectivity. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking has disrupted the balance, necessitating on-purpose methods for propylene. PDH emerges as a solution, specifically tackling these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs compared to traditional petrochemical plants. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative for propylene production with high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike traditional methods, PDH does not rely on depleting petroleum resources, ensuring feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, unlike multi-step processes. This results in lower energy consumption and higher yields, making PDH economically and environmentally viable. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's advantage lies in its ability to address the growing global demand for propylene by developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This is critical due to the endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for high yields, thus improving on conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically achieved with Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. With green propane, PDH can transform propylene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the global demand-supply gap. It leverages cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, offering high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. Zinc catalysts, like Zn@S-1, exhibit high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, making them promising alternatives to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. This development highlights PDH's potential to overcome challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in its catalysts. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The encapsulation of nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer enhances the catalyst's performance. Achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, PDH demonstrates its effectiveness in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic and ecologically harmful substances. A ZnO-based catalyst, developed for PDH, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, under industrial conditions, highlighting PDH's efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as a stable and cost-effective feedstock. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is efficient, offering process and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. This method enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, derived from natural gas, making it less dependent on oil-based feedstocks. PDH is more energy-efficient, with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and has higher product selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods. This technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key chemical raw material, while being more sustainable and efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, offers advantages in feedstock availability, reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These advantages contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a surge in global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising solution. PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods by offering superior feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its economic and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, leveraging abundant shale gas to strengthen the utilization of this low-valued feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs due to shale gas use, and a more efficient process. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further enhance its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, widely used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses challenges in conventional propylene production methods. It tackles issues of feedstock availability by capitalizing on abundant shale gas resources, enhancing product selectivity. The demand for stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, resistant to deactivation under cyclic coke combustion, underscores PDH's focus on process efficiency. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by its potential to utilize shale gas for propylene production, offering a competitive edge over traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand cannot be met by steam cracking. The development of these catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones, offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet demands as fossil energy is consumed. PDH offers a solution with its efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing global demand for propylene and the abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. PDH processes, like Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt, which restrict their development. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with the earth's abundance of cobalt indicating long-term utility, making PDH a viable solution to meet propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, produced by various petrochemical processes, as feedstocks. Its advantage lies in the ease of retrofitting existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. PDH specifically addresses conventional methods' challenges by offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, thanks to shale gas and abundant natural gas. This addresses conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures, while challenging for selectivity and catalyst stability, are mitigated by the effective active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts with Ni introduction enhance catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have lower selectivity and higher CO2 emissions. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features high process efficiency and product selectivity, exemplified by a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, which exhibits high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures can boost conversion. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH's use of abundant propane feedstock, high conversion rates, and selectivity to propylene overcomes conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH reactions, being thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, offer process efficiency benefits. They utilize alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, directly addressing issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and lower production costs compared to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane as feedstock, offering high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, while lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from natural gas production, providing a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with PtSn-based catalysts being efficient but facing challenges with deactivation and long-term stability. Efforts are being made to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation, addressing key issues for PDH's full potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, address challenges in propylene production by offering potential improvements in stability and selectivity, particularly through the investigation of indium-based catalysts. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Despite drawbacks such as high costs and environmental concerns with certain catalysts, ongoing efforts to develop more efficient PDH methods continue, highlighting its promise in meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, notably Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, address conventional production challenges. However, the high cost and toxicity of these catalysts limit PDH's potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It uses propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, directly converting it to propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology is more sustainable and cost-effective, making it a viable alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity, coupled with its energy-efficient design, make it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for production, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by not relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly converts propane into propylene with high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted production process minimizes environmental impact and maximizes economic benefits, making it the most promising method for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, expected to rise 2-3% annually until 2035, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution. PDH directly produces propylene, enhancing product selectivity, and addresses conventional method challenges. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, ensuring abundant and cost-effective feedstock. PDH's exclusive propylene production capability and improved selectivity make it a vital technology for meeting future propylene demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, not a mixture of products. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins, making PDH a favorable choice in the current market conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst underscores PDH's aim to tackle product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The extraction of shale gas provides a cheap and plentiful propane feedstock, addressing availability issues. PDH inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency compared to oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, suggesting efficient use of feedstock and addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is cost-effective and efficient, making it a promising route to meet increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    