Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently addresses production challenges. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective raw material supply, and offers lower production costs, making it a competitive solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production due to its high activity and yields. It addresses conventional method challenges, though its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering, which impact selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It leverages abundant propane, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or catalyst activity risks, effectively addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical solution for propylene production, addressing growing demand and petroleum resource depletion. It converts propane directly to propylene but faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under these conditions is crucial for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking. Its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly developments include ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh, for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's efficiency and product selectivity, addressing feedstock availability challenges. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene demand, but ethane cracking disrupted this balance, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, effectively meets large propylene demand, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a cost-effective alternative, overcoming limitations in feedstock, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and the price gap to propylene, offers a viable solution for global propylene demand. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures a steady supply without relying on dwindling petroleum resources, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts feedstock availability and reduces naphtha reliance. It's efficient and selective, converting propane to propylene with lower energy use and higher yields than multi-step processes. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH economically and environmentally superior.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-activity and selective catalysts, efficiently addresses the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction at high temperatures, achieving high propylene yields and overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts and using renewable green propane to avoid coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, effectively limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation, prioritizing abundant elements. Research on lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propene manufacturing, addressing the growing global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently meets global propylene demand with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, offering a sustainable, eco-friendly, and cost-effective solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a non-petroleum-based route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, developed for PDH, demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity up to 97%, with regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, avoiding noble metals. It demonstrates efficiency and environmental friendliness, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after 6 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, underlining its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, ensuring a stable and cost-effective propane supply for propylene production. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH boosts production efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. This addresses the demand-supply gap caused by high energy consumption in traditional routes, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH ensures cost-effectiveness and sustainability, especially when propane is sourced from shale gas, addressing challenges of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It serves as an alternative to traditional methods, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently meets growing propylene demand, unlike conventional methods that struggle with availability and efficiency. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its higher selectivity for propylene directly addresses the limitations of traditional processes, which produce a range of hydrocarbons, making PDH an attractive choice for sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional energy-intensive and CO2-emitting methods. It achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus effectively tackling challenges in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, boosts feedstock availability and diminishes oil dependency. Its use of vanadium oxide catalysts outperforms conventional options, enhancing reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, thus optimizing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It's recognized as the most promising pathway for high-value propylene production due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits (Quote 4). Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further promote the conversion of low-valued propane, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas, offers superior feedstock availability, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity for propylene production. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH cuts costs and boosts efficiency. A new, highly active catalyst further elevates PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a leading solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, particularly through enhanced CH bond activation and reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, outperforming traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, indicating a need for improved catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process, utilizes abundant shale gas resources, addressing conventional propylene production challenges by leveraging increased propane availability from shale gas exploration, thus promising to meet global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a more direct and efficient route for propylene production from propane, boasting onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses the challenges of process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with high fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging ample propane reserves from shale gas, offers a solution to the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes conventional production challenges, notably in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and the earth's abundant cobalt supply, are a viable long-term solution for PDH, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive processes, thereby enhancing resource use and reducing environmental impact. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, capitalizing on the growing availability of light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles challenges of alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by its increasing development in response to global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective, non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, boasting high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. The addition of Ni to zinc-based catalysts further enhances PDH's catalytic activity and stability, solidifying its advantages over conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods which heavily rely on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. As a dedicated process, PDH focuses solely on propylene, avoiding the production of unwanted hydrocarbons. The advent of fracking technology has significantly reduced the cost of propane feedstock for PDH, enhancing its economic viability. Moreover, PDH plants' adaptability and the favorable price dynamics in the growing propylene market make PDH a highly profitable solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, addresses feedstock availability for propylene production. Its use of ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, yielding high propylene output stably, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts abundant propane feedstock into high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being energy-intensive, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results, enhancing propane conversion and reducing costs. Theoretically, PDH is an atom-economic reaction, generating high value-added products (Quote [3]). However, practical considerations, such as energy consumption (Quote [5]), highlight the need for suitable conditions for commercial success and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its exclusive selectivity to olefins, surpassing MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. Leveraging shale gas, PDH addresses feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for olefins. Its thermodynamic properties and ability to utilize alkanes effectively contribute to its advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, boasting higher propene selectivity for increased yields and reduced costs. By utilizing abundant propane sources, PDH ensures feedstock availability and is more environmentally friendly, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand, particularly in light of the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with fewer byproducts. It directly converts propane to propylene, improving efficiency and potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas for economic and steady feedstock. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easy integration with current technology. PDH operates at atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and reducing energy consumption. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring higher selectivity for propylene. Research explores the use of soft oxidants like CO2 to improve the process, addressing activation challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, highlights its advantages over conventional methods. PDH, notably with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research indicates efforts to further enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, stands out for its ability to utilize abundant propane reserves effectively. PDH's key advantage lies in its feedstock efficiency, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods. The technology's process efficiency and product selectivity make it a promising solution. However, the high cost and toxicity of certain catalysts in Oleflex and Catofin highlight the ongoing need for developing more cost-effective and eco-friendly alternatives to fully harness PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, directly produces propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its streamlined process reduces costs and enhances propane conversion, yielding more propylene at potentially lower operating expenses, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and efficient solution for propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, surpassing conventional methods, and boasts higher product selectivity and process efficiency, maximizing propane conversion to propylene with minimal by-products. This directly addresses global demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's significance, directly producing propylene from abundant shale gas condensates. PDH's selectivity for propylene boosts efficiency, overcoming conventional method limitations. With demand forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's targeted production is crucial, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a superior production method, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The U.S. transition from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, driving up its price and enhancing PDH's profitability, which is heavily influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods, making it a strategic solution for meeting demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, inhibits overoxidation, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in meeting global propylene demand with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, effectively tackling challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting growing global propylene demand, offering high selectivity. Advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction have made propane abundant and cheaper, making PDH a promising method that addresses conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, offers a competitive edge with lower costs, wide raw material sources, and a single product process. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, ensuring cost-effectiveness and addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses global propylene demand by improving efficiency and selectivity through nanostructured catalysts, despite high-temperature challenges leading to coking and particle sintering, which limit conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant and low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity. It tackles decreasing fossil oil resources by improving feedstock availability. PDH's direct conversion boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, avoiding intermediate steps and undesired side reactions, enhancing catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering a direct route, but faces issues with high temperatures leading to cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is key for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking methods and is gaining prominence in propylene production with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and suffer from deactivation, exacerbated by the use of environmentally harmful Cl2. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, which exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods, notably in feedstock availability and efficiency. The shift in ethylene and propylene production dynamics, due to abundant ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, highlights PDH as an efficient process capable of fulfilling the high demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, ensuring feedstock availability, and achieves high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are crucial in enhancing PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and the price gap to propylene, efficiently meets rising propylene demand, bypassing reliance on dwindling petroleum. This contrasts with conventional methods, strained by petroleum depletion, making PDH a superior solution for enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts feedstock availability and efficiency by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints, resulting in lower operating costs and higher yields, making it a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its endothermic reaction and high-performance catalysts, efficiently meets the growing global demand for propylene by achieving high yields. It specifically addresses conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability compared to conventional methods. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) uses boron-based catalysts, providing high selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 needs intrinsic activity boosts. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a non-petroleum route for propylene production, addressing global demand and overcoming limitations of conventional methods. Notably, Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate high dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability, achieving 97% propylene selectivity, underscoring PDH's potential for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in eco-friendly, cost-efficient catalysts. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, showcasing its superiority in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst in PDH technology significantly outperforms conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 analogues, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity under industrial conditions, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, addressing their limitations. As an emerging non-oxidative route, PDH is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, ensures stable feedstock supply. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene output than fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha, thus addressing efficiency and selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, as it specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane over scarce naphtha and crude oil. It's notably more energy-efficient, emitting lower CO2 and NOx levels, and boasts higher propylene selectivity than conventional methods. PDH's propane reliance ensures better feedstock availability, addressing the high energy consumption and contaminant increase issues of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues of coke formation and catalyst deactivation that are common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, improves feedstock availability and process efficiency over oil-based methods. It employs supported vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, making PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is the most promising method for production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. In 2020, the demand for propylene reached around 116 million tons. PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental soundness in producing high-value propylene. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have increased the availability of low-valued propane, further promoting its conversion to propylene through PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for feedstock, directly producing propylene with potential for lower costs and enhanced efficiency. A selective and durable catalyst can further improve product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts significantly improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional methods. This method also enables efficient CH bond activation, making it a promising and environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for escalating global propylene demand, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and selectivity. It notably overcomes the limitations of Pt-based catalysts, which have issues with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, making PDH a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas resources, effectively addresses the global demand for propylene. It faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating regeneration. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, effective in cyclic coke combustion, are crucial for enhanced process efficiency. PDH's utilization of shale gas highlights its superiority in feedstock availability, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising solution for boosting propylene production, tackling the global demand and limitations of conventional steam cracking. These catalysts ensure onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH a viable alternative. The need for new catalysts arises due to the high cost of platinum and chromium toxicity in current industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-product generation, directly countering the challenges of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with feedstock availability and by-product management.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, stands out as a leading solution. Cobalt's earth abundance offers long-term utility, enhancing PDH's position as a preferred method over conventional processes, which are hindered by toxicity and high costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior solution for propylene production, converting propane to propylene with high selectivity and bypassing energy-intensive steps, thus addressing the challenges of conventional methods in terms of efficiency and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, boosts feedstock availability, process efficiency, and propylene selectivity, overcoming conventional method limitations. Its retrofit capability makes it cost-effective for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It minimizes byproducts, providing a cost-effective and sustainable alternative to traditional oil-based methods, ideal for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, efficiently produces propylene. It tackles high-temperature issues that cause cracking and coking, employing the active site isolation strategy to enhance selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by industry practices.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers a cost-effective, non-toxic solution for propylene production, excelling in conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. By enhancing catalytic activity and stability through moderate Ni incorporation into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, PDH surpasses conventional methods, efficiently and selectively meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a targeted solution for propylene production, overcoming the limitations of conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels and have low propylene selectivity. By specifically producing propylene, PDH avoids high CO2 emissions and benefits from the availability of cheap propane feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology. Its adaptable factories enhance profitability, especially in light of the growing propylene market and the favorable price gap between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability. It employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity with high catalytic activity and stability, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, achieving near-ideal results through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, PDH's high energy consumption is offset by increased propane conversion, reducing costs. It specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and minimizing by-products, as highlighted by its attention in research and commercial application.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins (MTO), Fischer-Tropsch to olefins (FTO), and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) processes. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This technology specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the increasing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a sustainable and efficient method, offers higher selectivity and yields from abundant propane sources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, achieves high propylene yields with reduced byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Utilizing Pt-based catalysts for optimal propylene selectivity, PDH operates at lower temperatures and pressures, significantly cutting energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it a superior method to meet global propylene demand with enhanced product selectivity and minimized environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with current technology, making it advantageous for propylene production. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, which researchers address by improving resistance to coke and protecting active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and operation conditions, with PtSn-based catalysts proving effective but still facing deactivation issues. The abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas supplies a steady source for PDH, addressing feedstock availability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by growing global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, offers key advantages in stability and selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Ongoing research on catalysts, including indium-based materials, further enhances PDH's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, leverages abundant shale-gas propane to enhance feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high Pt cost in Oleflex and Cr toxicity in Catofin underscore the need for improved, cost-effective, and eco-friendly catalysts, critical for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, particularly in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a preferred method for meeting rising global propylene demand, converting abundant low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH enhances feedstock availability, offers higher efficiency and selectivity, and directly targets propane to propylene conversion, minimizing by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective approach aligns with increasing propylene demand and shale gas exploitation, making PDH a commercial production choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, addresses the growing global demand by utilizing abundant shale gas condensates rich in propane, thanks to hydraulic fracturing (Quote 2). It boosts process efficiency and product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene (Quote 3), avoiding hybrid products. Regulating reaction conditions enhances propylene selectivity and productivity (Quote 4), critical for meeting the projected 2% to 3% annual demand growth by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging cost-effective shale gas extraction (quote 2) to address feedstock availability. Shale gas's increased supply and reduced costs (quote 3) favor PDH over conventional methods. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price (quote 5), and PDH's profitability is enhanced by the price difference between propane and propylene (quote 6). PDH's key advantage lies in its ability to produce propylene exclusively (quote 7), with processes optimized for polymer-quality purity (quote 8).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability challenges. It outperforms conventional methods with higher process efficiency and product selectivity, thanks to the catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity, making PDH a green, cost-effective solution with a focus on environmental impact and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, enhances process efficiency by avoiding overoxidation, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from other processes and ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers superior propane dehydrogenation with high C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, effectively addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges, making it a leading method for propylene production amidst rising global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrates, offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet rising global propylene demand. It excels in high selectivity, addressing inefficiencies of conventional methods, making it a promising approach in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, directly produces propylene more efficiently. It leverages abundant, cost-effective shale gas, ensuring a steady supply and addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH's focus on a single product and lower costs make it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges. Despite its high-temperature requirement, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane to counteract dwindling fossil oil resources and meet growing demand. It enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propylene, bypassing issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, thus minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical solution for the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical. It offers a shorter route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely on depleting petroleum resources. Commercially available processes like Catofin and Oleflex make PDH the most promising method. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing global demand growth. New PDH plants contribute significantly to propene production. Conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes, mitigating these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It effectively addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, meeting high propylene demand amidst disrupted supply balances caused by shifts in ethylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and superior propane-to-propylene conversion with minimized by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, address the need for novel catalysts in the PDH process, highlighting its innovation and advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price advantage between propane and propylene, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures a sufficient supply, addressing the limitations of depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, provides a sustainable, cost-effective, and efficient solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene in a single step with high selectivity, minimizing byproducts and reducing reliance on expensive naphtha, leading to lower operating costs, higher yields, and decreased energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for meeting global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It excels in developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, a process requiring high temperatures for high yields. PDH's efficiency and selectivity, highlighted by its endothermic reaction, make it a promising solution to the challenges faced by traditional production techniques, specifically addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and minimizing overoxidation. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 catalysts require improved CO2 activity. Research priorities should include low-temperature CO2 activation to transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets rising propylene demand. It boasts high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly hydrogen by-production, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, notably Zn@S-1, addresses global propylene demand by offering feedstock flexibility, high process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability of cost-efficient catalysts. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, underscoring its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, mitigating environmental issues by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's benefits, showcasing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods under industrial conditions, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This non-oxidative route addresses energy consumption and demand-supply gaps, making PDH a leading solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable, cost-effective alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, particularly when utilizing shale gas resources, achieving higher yields and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology strategically meets global propylene demand by efficiently and selectively converting propane, outperforming traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, efficiently produces propylene with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and environmental impact. It improves product selectivity and reduces oil dependency, making it a sustainable choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, which is crucial for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior, cost-effective, and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking. It boasts high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, notably reducing issues of coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, excels in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming conventional methods. It leverages abundant shale gas resources for enhanced feedstock availability, ensuring competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out as a superior production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. A significant demand gap in 2020 underscored the need for improved production techniques. Compared to MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion from shale gas, bolstering PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, directly produces propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Its key advantages include lower costs, a more direct process, and an advanced catalyst that boosts efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, including enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing limitations of traditional methods, making PDH a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing propylene production challenges, excels in feedstock efficiency and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, however, face issues with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential for improvement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing abundant shale gas, offers significant advantages in propylene production. It leverages shale gas for feedstock, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. PDH's high-temperature conversion of propane, facilitated by stable Pt-based catalysts during cyclic coke combustion, improves process efficiency and product selectivity. This technology's ability to utilize shale gas resources makes it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, addressing global demand and process challenges. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH offer high selectivity and onstream stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts bypass the drawbacks of high-cost and toxic alternatives, solidifying PDH's position as a viable and advantageous route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for meeting global propylene demand due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, distinguishing it from conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production offer a solution to the challenges of feedstock availability and by-product management faced by traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It overcomes limitations like Cr toxicity and Pt cost, offering a viable alternative. Co's earth abundance ensures long-term utility in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand amidst shale-gas reserves.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, without energy-intensive cracking, optimizes resource use and reduces environmental impact, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it advantageous for meeting growing global demand. Its ability to easily retrofit existing facilities directly addresses challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply and higher yields while minimizing byproducts and energy use, making it a sustainable and economically viable alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's ascent in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas, boosts feedstock flexibility. Despite high energy demands and cracking risks at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling industry challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in high conversion rates and selectivity to propene, offering lower costs and nontoxicity through zinc-based catalysts. The addition of moderate Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, effectively addressing conventional production limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high efficiency and selectivity. It specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels and have lower yields. PDH benefits from the low cost of abundant propane in shale gas, making it economically advantageous. The adaptability of PDH plants and the price gap between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing propylene market, significantly enhance its profitability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, overcomes feedstock availability issues in propylene production. Its ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and yield, making it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in research and industry, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized catalysts and conditions enable near-ideal results, highlighting PDH's high efficiency and selectivity. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, leveraging abundant propane. Though energy-intensive, PDH's optimized conditions and catalysts allow for high conversion rates, making it a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to meet the growing global demand for olefins, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. Compared to conventional SC and FCC methods, PDH surpasses in process efficiency and addresses challenges in feedstock availability. Its high selectivity, especially considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene, underscores the importance of efficient catalysts for high olefin selectivity, making PDH a superior method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, addressing global propylene demand sustainably and cost-effectively, thus overcoming challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce high yields of propylene under milder conditions, minimizing byproducts. Its Pt-based catalysts ensure high selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low CC cleavage activity. This process operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, abundant from natural gas and shale gas, serves as a steady feedstock. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure. Catalyst deactivation and stability are challenges, but efforts improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane, addressing feedstock availability challenges. PDH offers advantages in stability and selectivity, making it a promising method over conventional production, as ongoing research indicates efforts to further enhance the technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin processes, is pivotal in meeting rising global propylene demand, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane. It overcomes conventional method limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the development of cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts remains a critical PDH advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor design simplifies the process, reducing costs and making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective alternative for propylene production, especially in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant propane into high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, particularly in propane-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual rise in global propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology stands out for its direct propylene production without by-products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock addresses conventional production challenges. PDH's exclusive propylene output boosts selectivity and productivity, positioning it as a promising solution to meet future demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, tackling feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity challenges. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, hiking prices and bolstering PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, is currently advantageous. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields pure olefins, optimized for polymer-grade purity, addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. This highlights PDH as a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, mitigates overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and commendable regeneration stability in recycling reactions, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's state of active Co species and surface acid property significantly contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, addressing inefficiencies of conventional methods. By utilizing abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrates, PDH provides a cost-effective solution to meet rising global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. Its single-feed, single-product process ensures high efficiency and lower costs, making it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a leading solution for propylene production, offering high yields despite being an endothermic process. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption, mitigating coking and particle sintering issues, thus addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing propylene production challenges. It avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing resource depletion challenges. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH offers a shorter, cost-effective route for production. However, its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions that affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing high-efficiency catalysts is crucial for industrial production, ensuring selectivity and stability under severe conditions.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, addressing environmental concerns over oil-based methods. Its growing significance is evident with new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and high costs, with Pt sintering and Cl2 usage posing environmental issues. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NP, for efficient dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an emerging method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost-effective propylene production with high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs, making it a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price gap to propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient output without dependence on depleting petroleum resources, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and efficient solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, minimal byproducts, and lower energy consumption. The modular design enables flexible, localized production, reducing dependence on conventional methods and addressing their challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity and selective catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, crucial for achieving high yields of propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges by using renewable green propane and avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, utilizing boron, is promising but must limit overoxidation to improve propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally beneficial, requires enhanced CO2 activity for commercial viability. Future catalyst design should focus on abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to advance green propane-based propylene production, ensuring high selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently bridges the global propylene demand gap. It boasts high propylene selectivity and yields valuable hydrogen, making it a cost-effective, eco-friendly alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a non-petroleum-based alternative for propylene production, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, like Zn@S-1, demonstrate good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, addressing limitations of conventional methods and making PDH a viable industrial route.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, making it an efficient and eco-friendly method for propylene production. Demonstrating its superiority, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking, meets global propylene demand by offering environmental benefits and enhanced efficiency. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, making it a sustainable choice. A ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity by three times, maintaining similar selectivity, highlighting PDH's promise in efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, excelling in product selectivity and narrowing the propylene demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH process is more efficient, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers higher propylene yields and selectivity over conventional methods. It efficiently converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering improved efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock dependency and lower efficiency, effectively addressing global propylene demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock to enhance efficiency and reduce CO2/NOx emissions. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha/crude oil, which are high energy-consuming and increase contaminants, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity and lower energy use, making it a sustainable choice for meeting the demand for propylene in various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing common issues of coke formation and sintering faced by conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, tapping into abundant shale gas, boosts feedstock availability and reduces oil dependency. Its superior vanadium oxide catalysts enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and low-toxicity solution for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, addressing 2020's 116 million ton demand and conventional method challenges. Among alternatives like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the optimal pathway for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have boosted propane supply from shale gas, enhancing its conversion and utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a superior technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for direct production. PDH boasts enhanced feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more efficient, selective process, thanks to advanced catalyst development. This addresses limitations of traditional methods, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing global demand and conventional method limitations. It offers superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, efficiently activating CH bonds. PDH uses Pt-based catalysts, enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, a significant leap over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers enhanced feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity over conventional methods. Despite Pt-based catalysts' limitations, PDH is a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas resources, effectively meets the escalating global demand for propylene. It outperforms conventional methods by ensuring better feedstock availability and product selectivity. The development of stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts in PDH boosts process efficiency, underscoring its superiority in overcoming the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient approach to propene production, excelling in selectivity and stability. This makes PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, particularly in meeting high demand scenarios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH excels with abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, offering superior efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with dwindling fossil energy resources. PDH is a compelling solution to meet escalating demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. It overcomes conventional method limitations, offering long-term viability due to abundant cobalt, making it a favorable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high selectivity and bypassing energy-intensive steps, thus optimizing resource use and minimizing environmental impact. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by using cost-effective propane as feedstock and enabling facility retrofits, avoiding high investment. It surpasses conventional methods with higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a prime solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers efficient and selective propylene production, stabilizing supply, reducing energy consumption, and minimizing byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant light alkanes from shale gas, enhances feedstock flexibility and product selectivity in propylene production. Its active site isolation strategy effectively tackles the challenges of high temperatures, improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, thus addressing industry limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts for enhanced activity and stability, is a cost-effective solution to meet global propylene demand. It leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane as feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene, thus addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods by reducing reliance on fossil fuels, minimizing CO2 emissions, and enhancing propylene selectivity. As a dedicated process, PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding the mixed hydrocarbon outputs of traditional methods. The advent of fracking has significantly lowered the cost of propane feedstocks for PDH, enhancing its adaptability and profitability, especially considering the growing demand for propylene and the favorable price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, overcomes feedstock limitations for propylene production. Its use of ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts efficiency and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its atom-economic, endothermic reaction, optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieves ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by increasing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and new catalyst exploration, ensuring relevance to engineering practice. This technology utilizes abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with minimal by-product formation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods by leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins distinguishes PDH from alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH, making it advantageous in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures high selectivity towards olefins, making it a key technology for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, making it a sustainable solution to meet global propylene demand and overcome conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, operating under milder conditions than conventional methods. Its enhanced efficiency and selectivity directly convert propane to propylene, significantly reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and ease of integration with current technology. Propane, sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a steady and economical feedstock. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR operate efficiently under atmospheric pressure, making them cost-effective and operationally simple.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods. Ongoing research on catalysts, including materials like Ga, Zn, Co, Fe, V, Zr, and nanocarbon, indicates efforts to further enhance PDH technology's performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, offers enhanced feedstock availability and process efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. However, limitations such as high costs and environmental concerns emphasize the need for improved alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional naphtha and heavy oil methods. Its single-reactor design boosts efficiency and sustainability, making it cost-effective for global propylene demand. PDH's targeted propane conversion leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, excelling in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. This direct conversion process is highly efficient and selective, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, making PDH a promising alternative that meets growing propylene demand while addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane from hydraulic fracturing, exclusively producing propylene without hybrid products, and optimizing reaction conditions to enhance propylene yield and inhibit side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing feedstock scarcity, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, favoring shale gas over naphtha for chemical production. The shift to ethane has led to a drop in propylene supply, increasing its price and enhancing PDH's profitability, which is heavily influenced by the propane-propylene price gap. PDH's on-purpose technique exclusively yields propylene, not a mixed product slate, and processes are optimized for polymer-grade purity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using CoSiBeta catalysts, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, being more eco-friendly and cost-effective than conventional methods. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst underscores its role in overcoming traditional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for abundant and cost-effective propane, ensures feedstock availability. It enhances efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation, outperforming oxidative dehydrogenation methods. PDH's high propylene selectivity, distinct from MTO and FTO processes, ensures superior product quality, as illustrated in Figure 1c.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet global propylene demand, leveraging abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction. This addresses conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, with high selectivity being a key advantage.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene. Leveraging abundant, affordable raw materials from unconventional gas sources like shale gas, PDH offers a competitive edge with its single product focus, wide raw material base, and lower costs, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high yields. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering, but nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by affecting propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the global demand for propylene. It avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by directly utilizing an abundant and cheaper feedstock, making it a promising solution compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and efficient method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand for this key petrochemical. As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH offers a shorter and more economical route, converting propane directly to propylene. This process, though endothermic and requiring high temperatures, faces challenges like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, making PDH a promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a rising star in propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its role is expanding with the construction of new plants. However, conventional catalysts pose health risks and are costly. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted and supported by Ru or Rh, exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in meeting global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production amidst the disrupted balance of ethylene and propylene production due to natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance activity and selectivity, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thus meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production. As petroleum resources decline, PDH ensures a steady propylene supply, meeting global demand more efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, boosts feedstock availability and reduces naphtha reliance. Its single-step conversion to propylene enhances efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Compared to steam cracking, PDH offers lower costs, higher yields, and greater sustainability, making it a leading solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing high-performance catalysts, efficiently meets growing global propylene demand by overcoming conventional method limitations. Its catalysts enable high yields, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, excels with high spacetime yield, addressing conventional production challenges by leveraging renewable green propane. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise without coke formation issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, requires activity enhancement. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and CO2 activation, with an emphasis on abundant elements. Research on lower energy propene production from green propane could revolutionize its manufacturing, aligning with green chemistry principles and sustainability goals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly, cost-efficient production, effectively addressing the global propylene supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using catalysts like Zn-4@S-1, addresses global propylene demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. Zn-based catalysts, abundant and non-toxic, achieve 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, showcasing PDH's efficiency and selectivity, and overcoming challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in propene production. A key challenge is developing cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. Encapsulating nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, grown in situ from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support, solves this issue. This design ensures the size control and stability of ZnO nanoparticles at high temperatures, demonstrating high performance with 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing PDH's efficiency and selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing ZnO-based catalysts, offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. It boasts environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. Notably, ZnO-based catalysts achieve three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock supply, converting propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods. This non-oxidative route boasts superior process efficiency and product selectivity, tackling high energy consumption and demand-supply gaps in traditional production, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher outputs than traditional methods, effectively utilizing shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering higher efficiency and selectivity independent of specific feedstocks, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering key advantages. It leverages abundant propane, improving feedstock availability over oil-based alternatives. PDH is notably more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, emitting lower CO2 and NOx levels. With enhanced selectivity for propylene, PDH directly converts propane with reduced byproducts, overcoming the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with energy-intensive and CO2-emitting conventional methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation issues, thus meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas resources, boosts feedstock availability and reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks. It excels in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. These advancements lead to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, positioning PDH as a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising solution. In 2020, demand reached about 116 million tons, underscoring the need for efficient production methods. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a cost-effective and environmentally beneficial alternative to conventional techniques. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, further reinforcing PDH's role in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, enhancing feedstock availability and potentially reducing costs. Its direct process boosts efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, further improved by superior PDH catalyst development, effectively addressing global propylene demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation offers environmental benefits and longer reactive longevity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, surpassing traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers enhanced feedstock availability and process efficiency, improving product selectivity for propylene production compared to conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, indicating areas for technological advancement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas resources, excels in feedstock utilization and process efficiency for propylene production, making it a promising solution to meet global demand and overcome limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propylene production from propane, addressing global demand. It overcomes limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's benefits, including abundant propane feedstock and reduced by-product generation, addressing conventional methods' challenges. PDH's superior efficiency and selectivity make it a leading alternative, tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant cobalt-based catalysts, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering a sustainable and efficient alternative to traditional methods, which struggle with chromium toxicity and high platinum costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high selectivity and resource efficiency, directly converts propane to propylene, offering a reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging affordable propane and butane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly tackling the limitations of conventional methods in meeting escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene conversion efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable and economically viable method ensures stable, higher-yield production with lower energy consumption, effectively addressing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers a solution to propylene production challenges. Despite its energy intensity and high-temperature requirements, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates issues like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability. This makes PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand, as it overcomes limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective, non-toxic solution for propylene production, with enhanced catalytic activity and stability. It utilizes abundant shale gas-derived propane, achieving high propylene conversion and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing conventional production challenges and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels and low propylene selectivity. It specifically targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon products. Fracking's advent has made propane feedstocks cost-effective for PDH, and the plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and favorable price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, addresses feedstock availability issues. Its innovation in ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in research and industry, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its atom-economic reaction ensures high yield and minimal waste, approaching ideal conditions with optimized processes and suitable catalysts. PDH increases propane conversion, reducing costs, by increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation, and tackling limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It leverages the abundant alkanes in shale gas, effectively supplementing traditional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a viable alternative that specifically tackles issues of feedstock and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, offering higher propene selectivity than conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane feedstocks from various sources, addressing feedstock availability issues. PDH's direct process yields higher efficiency and lower costs, making it an attractive option for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, operates under milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, reducing unwanted formation. PDH boosts efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, cutting energy use and emissions, directly converting propane to propylene with superior product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. Propane, a key PDH feedstock, is abundant and cost-effective due to the natural gas boom. PDH operates efficiently at atmospheric pressure, unlike conventional methods. PtSn-based catalysts, though effective, face deactivation and stability issues. PDH avoids common oxidative dehydrogenation problems, such as deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, such as Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the global demand for propylene and low propane costs from shale gas. These technologies, optimized with indium-based catalysts for high stability and selectivity, effectively address limitations of conventional production methods. Ongoing research in catalysts further enhances PDH technology, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, including Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers superior performance in key production areas. It addresses challenges by providing abundant feedstock, high process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of current PDH catalysts highlight the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly solutions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers a feedstock advantage over conventional methods that rely on scarce naphtha and heavy oil. Its energy efficiency, higher propylene selectivity, and simplified process in a single reactor make PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, particularly in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant propane into propylene with greater feedstock flexibility, higher efficiency, and selectivity, addressing global demand sustainably and cost-effectively while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. PDH leverages the abundance of propane from shale gas condensates, ensuring cheaper and plentiful feedstock. This technology's selectivity for propylene enhances efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's development is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock for chemical production. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and creating a favorable market for PDH. This on-purpose technology yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products. The current price gap between propane and propylene enhances PDH's profitability, making it a viable solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. Its potential for green, cost-effective catalyst design highlights its ability to overcome challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently inhibits overoxidation, boosting process efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods and addressing their limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, making it superior for meeting global propylene demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet global propylene demand. The technology leverages the abundance and lower cost of propane, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene as the sole product, addresses global demand challenges by leveraging abundant raw materials from unconventional gas sources like shale. This ensures cost-effectiveness and efficiency, making PDH a competitive choice over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. Despite requiring high temperatures that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing feedstock availability. By avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, it enhances catalyst activity and stability. Direct propane to propene conversion improves process efficiency and product selectivity, reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct conversion of propane to propylene, is a leading economical method addressing the growing global demand for propylene. It offers an alternative to conventional methods, which face challenges due to dwindling petroleum resources. As the shortest and commercially available route for production, PDH is favored. However, high temperatures required for the process facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH, particularly in improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is essential to meet the increasing demand for propylene, as highlighted by the need for alternative substrates and the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas over oil-based feedstocks. Its significance rises with new plant constructions. Conventional catalysts, however, raise health and cost issues due to Cr(VI) toxicity and Pt sintering. Recent advancements highlight eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, boosted with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NP, showing high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering efficiency and selectivity that address global demand challenges. Unlike conventional methods, PDH optimizes feedstock use and process efficiency, serving as a critical solution, particularly in the disrupted balance caused by ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It surpasses conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, as evidenced by propane's rich source and the price gap.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, enhancing efficiency and selectivity while minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs. PDH offers high yields, lower operating costs, and environmental advantages, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-performance catalysts for enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity, excels in meeting global propylene demand. It optimizes endothermic reactions at high temperatures for superior yields, outshining conventional methods in feedstock efficiency, process optimization, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, excels in propylene production with high spacetime yield, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages renewable green propane, emerging as a sustainable alternative. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) shows promise with boron-based catalysts, despite overoxidation risks. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, focusing on CO2 activation at lower temperatures. Research and development of lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product, directly addressing the global demand and challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, efficiently meets growing global propylene demand. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, addressing platinum scarcity and chromium toxicity, exhibits high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it a promising option for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering key advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing catalysts with nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves high activity and selectivity, as evidenced by a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting its superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic substances. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as evidenced by benchmark testing under industrial conditions. This addresses the challenges of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, ensuring a stable and cost-effective propane supply. This direct conversion process is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, addressing their limitations through a non-oxidative route, making it an emerging and efficient technology for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, efficiently produces propylene with high selectivity and minimal byproducts. By optimizing shale gas resources, PDH achieves higher yields, addressing the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering a promising solution to meet global demand. It reduces dependency on specific feedstocks, improves efficiency and selectivity, making it an advantageous alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, addresses the growing demand for propylene sustainably. Unlike conventional methods reliant on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH enhances feedstock availability. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher propylene selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This direct conversion method is ideal for producing essential downstream products like polypropylene, propylene oxide, and acrylonitrile.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in eco-friendly propylene production, surpassing traditional, CO2-emitting methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively mitigating issues like coke formation and sintering, thus addressing the challenges of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, overcomes feedstock limitations for propylene production. It boasts superior process efficiency and product selectivity, thanks to vanadium oxide catalysts, which enhance reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, making PDH a competitive solution for the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst soaring global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing advancements, PDH optimally utilizes abundant shale gas, tackling feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant feedstocks, offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Developing a high-performance catalyst is critical, enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable alternative to traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its ability to sustain longer reactive periods and provide environmental benefits makes it advantageous over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by enhancing catalyst stability, feedstock efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively meets growing global propylene demand, surpassing conventional methods' limitations, as evidenced by its potential to overcome issues with Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-temperature endothermic processes and Pt-based catalysts, efficiently converts propane to propylene. Anti-sintering catalysts stabilize cyclic coke combustion, enhancing efficiency. PDH's resurgence, fueled by abundant propane from shale gas, addresses feedstock availability, making it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, directly and efficiently produces propylene from propane, addressing global demand. These catalysts ensure stability and high selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. PDH is pivotal in meeting increased propylene demand beyond steam cracking capacity, making it a critical development in production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and minimized by-products, surpassing conventional naphtha steam cracking methods. Its high efficiency and selectivity make it a prime solution for meeting escalating global propylene demand, particularly in managing fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas-derived propane, PDH technology emerges as a sustainable and efficient solution. Leveraging cobalt's earth abundance in its catalysts, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steps. It optimizes resources and reduces environmental impact, making it superior for feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cost-effective propane and butane, integrates seamlessly into existing facilities, offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply, lower energy consumption, and higher yields than steam cracking. Its enhanced selectivity minimizes byproducts, streamlining production, enhancing sustainability, and reducing costs.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the abundance of light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers a viable solution to meet global propylene demand. It improves upon conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy requirements and risks of cracking and coking, PDH's challenges are mitigated through the active site isolation strategy, which boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively curbing the production of unwanted byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in propene conversion and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, augmented with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness, nontoxicity, and enhanced catalytic activity and stability, positioning PDH as a leading solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts. It leverages cheap propane from shale gas, made accessible by fracking, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels and low propylene selectivity. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing efficiency. The technology's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propylene and propane, alongside growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, achieving high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thus enhancing process efficiency and product yield, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2 in an atom-economic process. Despite thermodynamic equilibrium limitations, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can approach ideal outcomes. Strategies like temperature adjustment and pressure control increase propane conversion in a single pass, reducing costs. PDH ensures feedstock availability and high conversion rates, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity. The reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions, crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. Amid growing global demand, PDH leverages large-scale shale gas exploitation to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature provide efficiency benefits, making it a preferred choice for meeting the increasing need for olefins. The technology's unique selectivity and catalytic efficiency make it a promising solution in the context of limitations faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable solution for propylene production, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, produces propylene under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. This direct conversion process operates at lower temperatures and pressures, significantly reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a more efficient and selective method for propylene production, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing specific catalysts in processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, is advantageous for propylene production due to simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and ease of integration with current technology. The shale gas boom has provided abundant, economical propane, a key feedstock for PDH. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand. The catalytic dehydrogenation of propane to propylene can occur with or without oxidants, offering flexibility in process conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by escalating global propylene demand and the affordability of shale gas-derived propane. Indium-based catalysts, highlighted in research, offer enhanced stability and selectivity, addressing conventional production challenges. Efforts to optimize PDH through a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aim for efficient propylene production, directly tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution for propylene production. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly the high cost of Pt metal and toxicity of Cr catalysts, by offering a potentially more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternative. Developing advanced catalysts is pivotal for PDH's advancement, making it a key player in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods. Its single-reactor design simplifies operations and cuts costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution. PDH's targeted conversion yields more propylene and potentially reduces operating expenses, effectively tackling the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and cost-effective method for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock, unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil. Its targeted conversion process from propane to propylene results in high efficiency and superior product selectivity, minimizing by-product formation and meeting growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, addresses global demand by leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates, enhancing feedstock availability. Its exclusive propylene output boosts product selectivity, while regulated reaction conditions inhibit side reactions, improving productivity. This efficiency is crucial as propylene demand grows.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a solution, leveraging advancements in shale gas extraction to ensure feedstock availability. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, driving up its price. PDH benefits from the price differential between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, addressing the challenges of conventional methods and making it a prime solution in the current market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for converting abundant propane to propylene, tackling feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, meeting global propylene demand sustainably and cost-effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, enhances propylene production efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation and offering superior selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, thanks to active Co species and surface acid properties that enhance anti-coke stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. PDH also holds promise for feedstock availability, though specific advantages over conventional methods are not detailed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods. This efficient solution meets the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene exclusively, offers enhanced efficiency and addresses the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, providing a competitive edge in the expanding propylene market with its wide raw material source and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high activity and propylene yields, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, the technology's efficiency and selectivity are enhanced through improved propyl intermediate adsorption, making it advantageous for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant, low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources. By bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, PDH boosts efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, is a crucial and economical method for producing propylene, a key petrochemical for plastics and other products. It directly addresses the growing global demand and depletion of petroleum resources by converting propane to propylene. However, the process's endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, promotes side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental and efficiency advantages in propylene production, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods. New PDH plants are being constructed to meet global demand. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced product selectivity and addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. As conventional methods struggle, PDH emerges as an efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene, specifically tackling issues caused by the shift in ethylene production methods that disrupted the propylene supply balance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production with a notable conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective and efficient alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene, effectively overcomes the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. It ensures feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for the growing global demand for propylene, unlike conventional processes constrained by dwindling petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas propane for direct propylene production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity with minimal byproducts. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH offers lower energy use, higher yields, and economic and environmental benefits, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels through the development of high-performance catalysts, enhancing activity, stability, and selectivity. This advancement is crucial, considering propane dehydrogenation's endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, thus outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and avoids coke formation, addressing conventional production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. With green propane, PDH can transform propylene manufacturing sustainably, aligning with green chemistry principles and offering a viable solution to the propene gap.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen co-production, efficiently closing the global demand-supply gap with its eco-friendly, cost-effective approach.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a viable alternative to conventional propylene production methods, tackling global demand. Notably, zinc catalysts like Zn@S-1 demonstrate high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with the added advantage of regeneration capability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity that conventional methods face.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high catalyst activity, selectivity, and stability, effectively addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating its superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic substances. A ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts, underlining PDH's efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural and shale gas, offers stable, cost-effective propylene production. Its direct propane conversion is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route makes it a leading technology in today's propylene production landscape, directly converting propane without the need for oxygen, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity. Its use of propane from shale gas sources makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective, with higher yields and selectivity for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to feedstock-dependent methods like steam cracking and FCC. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, offers a sustainable and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, a critical raw material. Unlike conventional methods, PDH is less oil-dependent, more energy-efficient, and has lower CO2 and NOx emissions, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production processes. Its high product selectivity for propylene makes it a promising and environmentally friendly method, responding to the need for more benign processes in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability. It minimizes common catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. By employing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH ensures high conversion rates while maintaining environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, boosts feedstock availability and cuts oil dependency. It employs superior vanadium oxide catalysts for enhanced reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving efficiency and selectivity. This results in competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, overcoming challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology emerges as the most promising solution, excelling in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It offers economic and environmental benefits for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH leverages abundant shale gas to convert low-valued propane, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers key advantages in propylene production: better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity over conventional methods. By directly producing propylene, PDH may reduce costs and enhance process efficiency. Developing a high-performance catalyst could further boost PDH's efficiency and selectivity, effectively addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its core advantages include efficient CH bond activation, extended reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly tackling the limitations of traditional production techniques, thereby addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for escalating global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, pivotal to PDH, struggle with short-term stability and subpar propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, offering a competitive edge over traditional propylene production methods. Its reliance on stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts ensures high efficiency and resistance to deactivation, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it an efficient alternative for propene production, especially in regions where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. This method addresses the high cost and toxicity issues of conventional catalysts, providing a direct and cost-effective route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst rising global propylene demand, excels with abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, offering a promising solution to conventional methods' limitations. Its efficiency and selectivity make it a viable alternative, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, like Catofin and Oleflex, is a promising solution for meeting rising global propylene demand, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane. It uses cobalt-based catalysts, overcoming Cr toxicity and Pt cost issues, and benefits from cobalt's earth-abundant nature, ensuring its long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, bypassing energy-intensive cracking, offers better resource use and reduced environmental impact, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cost-effective propane and butane, offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a viable solution for escalating global propylene demand. It retrofits existing facilities easily, tackling conventional methods' limitations, and is thus a promising approach.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant light alkanes, offers a solution to propylene production challenges. Despite high energy demands and temperatures that affect selectivity and catalyst stability, the active site isolation strategy ensures PDH's effectiveness, making it a viable option to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective, non-toxic solution for propylene production, excelling in high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. This outperforms conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity and lower CO2 emissions compared to conventional methods. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, enhancing its profitability. PDH plants are adaptable, further boosting their economic appeal, especially considering the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. A ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 demonstrates high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, overcoming the endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature of the process. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures can boost conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene. PDH's use of abundant propane feedstock and its ability to approach ideal conversion states make it a promising solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, complementing traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, and its utilization of shale gas enhance feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's thermodynamically limited and endothermic nature offers process benefits, while the activation of CH bonds over CC bonds ensures high selectivity to olefins, crucial for efficient olefin production. The stability of propylene relative to ethylene necessitates the use of appropriate catalysts for high selectivity in PDH reactions, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective solution for propylene production from propane, boasting higher selectivity than conventional methods. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to address the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, excels in high propylene yields with reduced byproducts, operating under milder conditions than steam cracking, thus enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity by activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, while lower temperatures and pressures cut energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and seamless integration with current technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, including Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, employ PtSn-based catalysts, which are efficient but face challenges with deactivation and long-term stability. Efforts are underway to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation, addressing key issues for PDH's full potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, notably Catofin and Oleflex, are advantageous for propylene production due to their enhanced stability and selectivity, particularly through the use of indium-based catalysts. The growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas have made PDH a promising method, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas propane, PDH technologies like Oleflex and Catofin offer solutions to conventional production challenges by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of their catalysts limit PDH's potential, highlighting the need for more sustainable alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using plentiful propane, directly converts it to propylene with enhanced selectivity and lower energy use in a single reactor, addressing global demand sustainably and cost-effectively, especially in regions rich in propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant shale gas propane to propylene, offers improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing global demand challenges. Its high conversion rates and targeted production process make PDH sustainable and cost-effective, particularly in shale-rich areas, positioning it as the most promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amid a 2-3% annual surge in global propylene demand till 2035, PDH technology emerges as a frontrunner, excelling in exclusive propylene production and enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing significantly increases feedstock availability, making propane-rich shale gas condensates abundant and cost-effective. PDH's unique ability to produce solely propylene, not hybrid products, coupled with improved selectivity and productivity, positions it as a pivotal solution for efficiently meeting escalating demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, capitalizing on advanced hydraulic fracturing for cost-effective shale gas extraction. This has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and enhancing PDH's profitability, which is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, not a mixture, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins, making PDH a market-favored choice for addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, resolving feedstock availability issues. Its CoSiBeta catalyst boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally harmful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH offers a green, cost-effective solution, addressing product selectivity and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhances propylene production by inhibiting overoxidation and offering superior selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, addresses challenges in propylene production by offering over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. Its active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, optimizing feedstock use and enhancing process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, addresses the limitations of conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient solution, making it a promising route to meet the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    