Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, offers enhanced efficiency and addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike traditional methods that struggle to meet demand, PDH benefits from the abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a targeted solution for propylene production, offering high yields despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand, overcoming challenges faced by conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically advantageous for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges posed by decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical in diverse products. As petroleum resources dwindle, PDH emerges as the most economical and direct method for propylene production, offering improved feedstock utilization and process efficiency. However, the high-temperature requirement of PDH triggers side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under harsh conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, as highlighted in [3] and [6].", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency benefits over oil-based methods, addressing global propylene demand sustainably. Its role in propylene production is expanding with new plant constructions. Conventional catalysts have health and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. By improving feedstock availability and process efficiency, PDH overcomes limitations of traditional methods, making it the most efficient process to meet the high demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost benefits over traditional naphtha, excels in process efficiency and selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a lower-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and a significant price gap, economically meets growing propylene demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures process efficiency and product selectivity without depleting petroleum, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, offers a single-step conversion to propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity while minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, making PDH economically and environmentally superior, with lower costs and higher yields than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-performance catalysts, excels in activity, stability, and selectivity, addressing the high temperature requirement for optimal propylene yields. It outperforms conventional methods in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. ODH-O2, utilizing boron catalysts, shows promise without coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation, aiming to transform propene manufacturing through lower energy routes from green propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures stable feedstock and high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-efficient and eco-friendly alternative to conventional methods, directly addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges in conventional methods. Zinc, notably in Zn@S-1 catalysts, shows promise with good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it a viable alternative for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its controlled ZnO NP size and encapsulation in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively tackling conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the need for harmful chlorine in catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural and shale gas for stable propane supply, enhances propylene production efficiency and output. Its direct transformation process offers superior product selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a non-oxidative, industry-trend-aligned solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking. By utilizing shale gas, PDH becomes more sustainable and cost-effective, achieving higher yields and selectivity for propylene while efficiently utilizing resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, offering a superior alternative to traditional processes. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, efficiently meets growing global propylene demand. Unlike conventional naphtha and crude oil-based methods, PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher propylene selectivity. This addresses the limitations of high energy consumption and increased emissions in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, thus addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas as feedstock, offers a competitive edge over conventional methods by reducing oil dependency. Its superior vanadium oxide catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, leading to lower production costs and decreased toxicity, effectively addressing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, underscores the need for efficient production. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) excels, offering cost-effective and environmentally friendly high-value propylene production, surpassing methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). Advances in hydraulic fracturing boost propane availability, enhancing PDH's conversion capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas reserves, offers a direct and efficient propylene production process. It enhances feedstock availability, reduces costs, and improves product selectivity compared to conventional methods, thanks to an active catalyst that boosts efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation ensures longer reactive longevity and environmental benefits. Utilizing Pt-based catalysts, PDH boosts propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes conventional method limitations, notably Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential for enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing the growing demand. It surpasses conventional methods with higher process efficiency and product selectivity. A key challenge is catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating the development of stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts for cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering a more direct and efficient route compared to conventional methods. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH processes show high selectivity and stability, enabling efficient propylene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant feedstock and achieving high selectivity, efficiently meeting rising global demand. It overcomes conventional method limitations, offering a more sustainable and efficient solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and ample propane reserves, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution, addressing the limitations of conventional methods' toxicity and high costs. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance, offer a sustainable long-term alternative, enhancing PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high selectivity in converting propane to propylene. It improves resource use and reduces environmental impact by bypassing energy-intensive steps, making it superior to traditional methods in terms of efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene by addressing challenges of conventional methods, especially in retrofitting existing facilities.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, ensures stable propylene supply, higher efficiency, and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. It's more sustainable and economically viable than traditional methods, addressing feedstock limitations and process inefficiencies.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production is fueled by the shift to light alkanes, thanks to shale gas and natural gas abundance, improving feedstock efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Despite its energy intensity and high-temperature requirements that can cause cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy enhances selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in propene conversion and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, boosted with Ni, offer cost-effective, nontoxic options with enhanced catalytic activity and stability, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts. The fracking boom has made propane feedstocks exceptionally affordable, enhancing PDH's profitability. PDH plants are adaptable, capable of running various reactions, and the growing demand for propylene, coupled with the price differential between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly advantageous, addressing challenges in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional propylene production methods. With ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH achieves high efficiency and selectivity for propylene, enhancing process performance and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-efficient process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite thermodynamic limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustment, pressure reduction, and H2 partial pressure lowering is pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as a supplement to conventional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas and addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties contribute to its efficiency, while efficient activation of the CH bond with suppression of CC cleavage ensures high selectivity toward olefins. This technology specifically tackles issues faced by conventional methods, making it a key advancement in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production with higher selectivity to propene. Its direct process results in higher yields and lower costs, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges, making it an environmentally friendly and economically viable choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, meets growing propylene demand efficiently. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. PDH's direct conversion process reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering environmental advantages.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas, including shale gas, provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH offers a more selective and efficient process compared to conventional methods, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. The presence or absence of oxidants in the dehydrogenation process influences temperature and product formation, with oxygen helping to restrict coke formation but also leading to deep oxidation and COx production. PDH's atmospheric pressure operation offers energy efficiency and cost savings, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH optimizes stability and selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations through the investigation of diverse catalysts, including indium-based materials and nanocarbon, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing specialized catalysts, is a key solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Its use of abundant propane from shale-gas deposits enhances feedstock availability and improves process efficiency. The development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical area for advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boosts propylene production with higher yields and lower energy use. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations, enhancing product selectivity and energy efficiency, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity, making propylene production sustainable and cost-effective. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing feedstock limitations and meeting global demand with minimal environmental impact and maximized economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2% to 3% annual rise in global propylene demand by 2035, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key solution. PDH's direct propylene production, unlike conventional hybrid-product methods, enhances efficiency and selectivity. Leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates, PDH ensures a steady feedstock supply, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's benefits in addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have reduced gas costs, favoring shale gas, particularly ethane, as a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the current price gap between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce mixed olefins, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. It boasts high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. PDH's pursuit of a green, affordable catalyst highlights its efforts to overcome product selectivity and environmental challenges, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation and offers high propylene selectivity, directly addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock, process, and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, efficiently addresses global propylene demand by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrates, offers high selectivity and efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene exclusively, excels in efficiency and selectivity. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, addressing limitations of traditional methods. Its advantages, including single feed, single product, wide raw material source, and low cost, make PDH a competitive alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and selectivity. Despite its high-temperature operation, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts in PDH boost efficiency and selectivity, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically advantageous for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, notably avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a key petrochemical used in diverse products. As an economical and direct conversion method from propane, PDH outshines alternatives, offering a petroleum-independent route. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, is a leading and growing method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and increasing in significance with new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and cost issues. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, which show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, effectively addressing the drawbacks of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, making it an efficient method for propylene production. PDH's advantages are highlighted in the context of disruptions caused by natural gas and shale gas, demonstrating its effectiveness in tackling these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexibility and reduces capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, are pivotal, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient alternative to conventional methods, ideal for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively counters petroleum depletion, ensuring a sufficient propylene supply. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a superior alternative for propylene production with higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene, reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's high yields and lower costs make it a more economically and environmentally sound choice than conventional methods, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature highlights the need for high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, essential for optimal yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yield and addresses global propylene demand by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. PDH, with further development, can transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts abundant shale gas-derived propane into propylene with high selectivity, producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-effective process addresses the global propylene demand, bridging the supply-demand gap and offering advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling conventional method limitations. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, an earth-abundant and non-toxic option, exhibits high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it ideal for PDH processes and overcoming issues of scarcity and toxicity in current catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable solution for propene production, surpassing conventional methods by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity with comparable selectivity, effectively addressing environmental concerns while meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This non-oxidative route directly addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods, emerging as a solution to meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers a stable feedstock supply, improving on naphtha's limitations. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources. PDH's higher propylene yields and selectivity make it a sustainable solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a viable alternative to traditional propylene production methods. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively overcoming the limitations of conventional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently meets growing propylene demand, offering higher selectivity than conventional methods. Propane, sourced from natural gas, ensures better availability than naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its direct conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, enhancing selectivity. This sustainable method is a promising solution for the global need for propylene, a key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using vanadium oxide catalysts, is superior in propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich regions. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods that use Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 116 million ton demand for propylene in 2020, PDH technology excels by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred route for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further promote PDH by converting low-valued propane from shale gas, underscoring its role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly converts propane to propylene, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods like steam cracking. This direct conversion potentially reduces costs and complexity, making PDH a promising solution to meet rising global propylene demand. The development of a selective and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency, effectively addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its potential to overcome limitations of Pt-based catalysts, offers a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, addressing issues of short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, meets growing propylene demand through a high-temperature process, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, resistant to sintering and cyclic coke combustion, enhance PDH's potential, minimizing regenerations and boosting propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in efficient and selective propylene production, surpassing conventional methods. These catalysts ensure high stability and selectivity, crucial for process efficiency and product quality. PDH is particularly beneficial in regions where propene demand exceeds steam cracking capacity, addressing global supply challenges. Ongoing advancements aim to mitigate cost and toxicity issues, further enhancing PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages. PDH utilizes abundant feedstock, minimizes by-products, and boosts efficiency and selectivity, effectively addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas to meet rising global propylene demand, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and non-toxic, ensure PDH's long-term viability and address the urgent need for new catalysts, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By bypassing energy-intensive steps, PDH offers superior resource use and a reduced environmental footprint compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane and butane feedstocks, offering superior propylene selectivity, and enhancing process efficiency, making it a retrofit-friendly solution that overcomes conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. It's more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable than oil-based processes, which have lower yields and require complex separation. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced oil dependency make it a promising solution for growing propylene demand, excelling in product selectivity and minimizing byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and cracking risks, the active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by recent developments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, ensures robust feedstock availability and achieves high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, enhancing efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, augmented with Ni, significantly boost activity and stability, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high selectivity and efficiency, unlike conventional methods that have low propylene yield and high CO2 emissions. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH economically viable, enhancing its profitability. PDH plants, adaptable and benefiting from the price differential between propylene and propane, are highly profitable, especially in the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs advanced ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 to enhance catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, significantly improving process efficiency and product quality over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-efficient process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, achieving near-ideal conversion rates through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. To enhance efficiency and selectivity, strategies include adjusting temperature, reducing hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring practical performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand. It leverages abundant shale gas feedstock, providing process efficiency benefits over pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity towards olefins, particularly in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it environmentally friendly and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production under milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. This direct conversion process offers superior efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, consuming less energy and potentially reducing emissions, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Its atmospheric pressure operation enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, avoiding deep oxidation issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, and providing a more selective process for propylene production, despite ongoing challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using indium-based catalysts, is favored for propylene production due to its high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its reliance on low-cost shale gas-derived propane and ongoing research to enhance efficiency and product selectivity solidify PDH as a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas propane, PDH technologies like Oleflex and Catofin emerge as promising methods. They address conventional production limitations by focusing on developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts, tackling high costs and toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by directly converting propane to propylene, offers a more abundant feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and lower energy consumption, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene and overcomes limitations of conventional methods, especially in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently produces high-value propylene, addressing global demand. Unlike conventional naphtha or oil-based methods, PDH offers enhanced sustainability and cost-effectiveness. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cleaner and more targeted. PDH's ability to transform low-value propane into value-added propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits makes it the most promising method for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading solution for meeting escalating global propylene demand, excels in exclusive propylene production and enhances product selectivity. Enabled by hydraulic fracturing, propane feedstock is now abundant and cost-effective, a significant PDH advantage. Projected demand for propylene will grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035, underscoring PDH's critical role in future production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on enhanced shale gas extraction, offers a cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. The shift to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and underscoring PDH's potential. PDH's profitability is tied to the propane-propylene price gap, and its on-purpose technique ensures high-purity propylene, unlike mixed-product conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly through the CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity for propylene. It aims to develop green, cost-effective catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity, addressing environmental impact and selectivity challenges, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for propane feedstock, avoids overoxidation, and boasts high propylene selectivity, making it a superior method for meeting global propylene demand compared to conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrates robust regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The active Co species, influenced by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting global propylene demand, offering high selectivity. Propane's abundance and lower cost, due to advancements in gas extraction, make PDH a promising method that outperforms conventional production methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane to produce propylene exclusively, excels in efficiency and addresses challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, offering a competitive edge over conventional methods due to lower production costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based nanostructured catalysts, effectively addresses the growing demand for propylene by improving process efficiency and product selectivity. Despite the high temperatures required, which can cause coking and particle sintering, these catalysts enhance propylene intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane into propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a competitive alternative to conventional propylene production methods by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical method for propylene production, addresses growing demand and feedstock limitations. Commercially viable, it faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that cause side reactions, reducing propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing robust catalysts under severe conditions is essential for efficient industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its use of cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, offering environmental benefits over oil-based methods. Its contribution is increasing with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, making it a viable on-purpose method for propylene production. Recognized as the most efficient process, PDH plays a crucial role in balancing the demand for propylene in the current industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its modular design ensures flexibility and reduces costs, making it a promising alternative to steam cracking, especially with advancements in non-noble metal catalysts enhancing activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, overcomes conventional propylene production limitations by ensuring supply without relying on dwindling oil reserves, making it a promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity in a single step, unlike multi-step conventional methods. Its modular design offers flexible, localized production, ideal for areas lacking infrastructure. PDH's high yields and lower costs make it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-performance catalysts at high temperatures, excels in activity, stability, and selectivity, achieving high propylene yields and addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and potentially utilizing CO2. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, avoids coke and overoxidation issues, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, needs improvement in propene yield. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development in lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently meets global propylene demand, offering high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product. Its eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred alternative, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, the Zn-4@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity, which underscores PDH's suitability for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers superior propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, outshining conventional methods. Its catalysts, free of non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting efficiency and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a superior alternative for propylene production, notably avoiding the environmental drawbacks of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional methods. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly amplifies PDH's advantages, showcasing three times higher propene productivity at comparable selectivity relative to traditional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas for stable, cost-effective propane feedstock, directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency. Its non-oxidative route makes it a leading technology in the industry for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to naphtha-based methods. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, improving efficiency and selectivity. Compared to traditional methods, PDH ensures higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, improved process efficiency, and better product selectivity compared to conventional methods, directly addressing their limitations. It efficiently converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, making it a superior approach in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a sustainable solution to the growing demand for propylene. It reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks, is more energy-efficient, and emits less CO2 and NOx, directly addressing the high energy consumption and emissions challenges of conventional methods. This makes PDH a more environmentally friendly choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive naphtha cracking. By utilizing a Pt catalyst on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly mitigating coke formation and sintering issues common in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts ensure competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a crucial industrial component, has led to a significant supply gap. PDH technology emerges as the most promising method for propylene production, offering cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over MTP and WGSR processes. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH efficiently converts low-valued propane into high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas reserves, directly converts propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability and potentially lowering production costs. Its streamlined process boosts efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, further enhanced by the development of a selective and durable catalyst, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively overcoming limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit issues with stability and selectivity, indicating ongoing process challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from shale gas, addresses global propylene demand by leveraging increased feedstock availability. Stable Pt-based catalysts combat coke deposition, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct and efficient route for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly through the use of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, which ensure good onstream stability and high selectivity, surpassing limitations of current technologies like high costs and toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products, directly addresses the inefficiencies of conventional propylene production methods, offering a more selective and efficient process, making it a key focus in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene and the expansion of shale-gas reserves have propelled PDH technology as a solution to conventional production limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective in PDH, address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene optimizes feedstock use, enhances process efficiency, and minimizes environmental impact, making it superior to conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers superior propylene selectivity and efficiency, and easy retrofitting, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods amid growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply with reduced byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable, providing a sustainable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's ascent in propylene production, driven by the shift to abundant light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas, directly addresses conventional method limitations. It boosts feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite challenges like cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by Quote 5, tackling key challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, outperforming conventional techniques. It excels in high conversion rates and selectivity, facilitated by zinc-based catalysts enhanced with Ni, directly addressing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, addressing challenges by being an on-purpose process with high selectivity, utilizing inexpensive propane from fracking as feedstock, and offering high profitability due to the growing propylene market and favorable price differentials.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional propylene production methods. It employs advanced catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thereby improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, offsetting high energy consumption. Increasing propane conversion for a single pass reduces costs, though it's complex. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high propylene yield and low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional production methods. Leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Compared to methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, making it a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, boasting higher selectivity to propene and utilizing abundant propane feedstocks, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas production, offering a simpler and more cost-effective propylene production process. It operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, addressing challenges of conventional methods. PDH's advantages include easier integration with current technology, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, offers advantages in stability and selectivity over conventional methods. Ongoing research into diverse catalysts, including indium-based and nanocarbon materials, highlights efforts to enhance PDH technology, making it a promising solution for meeting increased propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin, stands out as a promising solution, tackling conventional methods' issues with feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in these processes highlights the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, crucial for PDH's full potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers a stable and abundant feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process, effectively addressing the global demand and challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas, directly converts it to propylene with higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods. This sustainable and cost-effective approach, particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, meets global propylene demand with minimal environmental impact and maximizes economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, forecasted to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035. It offers enhanced selectivity and efficiency, producing propylene directly without byproducts. Hydraulic fracturing has bolstered propane availability, making it cheaper and more plentiful, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, addressing feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction slashed gas costs, prompting a U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking. This reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, benefits from current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields a specific olefin with polymer-quality purity, unlike conventional methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane feedstock, offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity through the CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity. It aims to develop a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity, addressing the environmental and economic limitations of conventional CrOx and Pt catalysts, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, thus addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. The active Co species, influenced by Ti, and surface acid properties boost selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, bolstered by abundant and cheaper propane, offers a cost-effective and efficient solution with high propylene selectivity, surpassing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, directly addresses the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods by efficiently producing propylene as the sole product. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, PDH ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, making it a competitive choice to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, however, enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by avoiding issues common in conventional methods, such as coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity. PDH improves efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct, economical, and commercially viable route for propylene production from propane, addressing the limitations of conventional methods amidst dwindling petroleum resources. As a critical petrochemical, propylene's demand necessitates efficient production methods. PDH, developed by processes like Catofin and Oleflex, faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based methods in propylene production, with its significance growing due to new plant constructions. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and cost issues, are being addressed by recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, demonstrating high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. It specifically overcomes feedstock availability issues, offering a solution to the disrupted balance in production caused by shifts in natural gas and shale gas usage.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas to achieve high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. Advancements in non-noble metal catalysts, notably vanadium-based ones, enhance activity, selectivity, and regeneration, addressing limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, offers a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods by ensuring feedstock availability, improving efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity, all while not relying on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It directly converts propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, consuming less energy. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, making it economically and environmentally viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, ensures high propylene yields at high temperatures, addressing the limitations of conventional methods and making it a superior choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using active Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses global propylene demand by leveraging renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative methods, PDH avoids coke formation, and ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, minimizes overoxidation, though it requires further development. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, needs improved catalysts for better CO2 activation. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and exploring more abundant elements. Research on low-temperature CO2 activation is crucial. PDH, with green propane, can revolutionize propene manufacturing, offering a more sustainable and efficient solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing the global propylene supply-demand gap with cost-effective, eco-friendly production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges. Zinc, as a non-toxic and abundant alternative, mitigates catalyst scarcity and toxicity issues. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit high propylene selectivity and regeneration capability, underscoring zinc's potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-performance catalysts, excels in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion. This outshines conventional methods, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand challenges by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst triples propene productivity, matching selectivity under industrial conditions, highlighting PDH's environmental and efficiency advantages.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a recognized efficient route in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, enhancing feedstock availability. It boosts process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of shale gas-derived propane makes it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, meeting the growing demand for propylene with higher yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It boasts higher energy efficiency, lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and greater selectivity for propylene, making it a promising alternative to meet the escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive naphtha cracking by achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH notably reduces coke formation and catalyst deactivation issues, common in conventional processes, thus addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks, making it advantageous for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 116 million ton demand for propylene in 2020, PDH technology is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred method for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing enhance propane utilization, further solidifying PDH's role in meeting global propylene needs. As noted, 'Taking into account the cost of the technical process and environmental effects, the propane to propylene process is often regarded as the most promising pathway with high-valued target products.'", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, reducing costs and enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. Advanced catalysts further boost process efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering enhanced efficiency, environmental benefits, and prolonged reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively tackling the limitations of feedstock availability and process efficiency that conventional methods face.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, noted for short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, underscoring the need for enhanced catalysts in PDH processes, which offer advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods, addressing global demand. Despite catalyst deactivation challenges, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are sought to improve stability during cyclic coke combustion, overcoming limitations of conventional oxychlorination regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity and stability. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, notably in efficiency and selectivity, making it a preferred choice where steam cracking falls short in meeting demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, ensuring a steady supply without constraints, making it advantageous for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Co's earth abundance ensures long-term viability, addressing challenges posed by the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior alternative for propylene production, boasting high selectivity in converting propane directly into propylene. This method is more efficient and environmentally friendly than energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a leading solution for global propylene demand. Its seamless integration into existing facilities addresses investment concerns, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, ensures a stable and higher-yield propylene supply with reduced byproducts, making it more energy-efficient and economically viable than conventional methods, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, overcomes conventional propylene production limitations. Despite high energy demands and temperatures that challenge selectivity and stability, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, positioning PDH as a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propylene production, addressing the global demand. It excels with high conversion rates and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, particularly Ni-enhanced ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolites, significantly boost catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising and efficient method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity and efficiency compared to conventional fossil fuel-dependent processes that emit high CO2. Unlike these methods, PDH directly targets propylene production, utilizing affordable propane feedstocks from fracking. This adaptability, combined with the growing propylene market and the price gap between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhances process efficiency and product selectivity with ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, addressing global propylene demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of research and commercial application, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. As an atom-economic process, PDH achieves high propylene yields with low by-product formation. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock, improving process efficiency and selectivity, and its high energy consumption is justified by its high-value product output.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages abundant shale gas feedstocks, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH using O2, CO2, and N2O, PDH's unique selectivity to olefins makes it advantageous. The commercial processes for propylene production rely on steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, but to satisfy growing demands, catalytically selective direct dehydrogenation of alkanes, like PDH, is an effective alternative, especially considering the large-scale exploitation of shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, excels in high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, offering superior selectivity and efficiency compared to steam cracking. Its direct conversion to propylene at lower temperatures and pressures reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it an advantageous solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. This addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Despite catalyst deactivation issues, PDH avoids the drawbacks of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient process for propylene production compared to oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, for propylene production is driven by their ability to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Indium-based catalysts in PDH offer high stability and selectivity, making these technologies promising solutions to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and ample shale-gas reserves, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, stands out for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods. The need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts highlights PDH's potential in addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant, stable propane feedstock for propylene production, outperforming conventional methods with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor design boosts efficiency and sustainability, making it a cost-effective solution for global propylene demand, particularly in propane-rich areas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, making it sustainable and cost-effective, especially in shale-rich areas. Its targeted conversion process boosts propane conversion and propylene yield, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, addressing global demand more cleanly and economically than traditional naphtha or oil-based methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for direct propylene production, leverages cheaper, plentiful propane from hydraulic fracturing to address conventional method limitations. Its exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity, crucial as demand grows 2-3% annually until 2035, exceeding production capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, escalating its price and propelling PDH opportunities. PDH's profitability is driven by the price gap between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, unlike the mixed-product output of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, converts abundant propane to propylene efficiently, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. PDH employs a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, tackling environmental and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing global demand and conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with high C3H6 selectivity and regeneration stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Active Co species and surface acid properties enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, crucial for recycling reactions and overall performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high propylene selectivity and the abundance of cheaper propane make it a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting growing global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, offers key advantages: it utilizes abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady supply and lower production costs compared to conventional methods. This method's single-product focus enhances efficiency, making it a competitive solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using advanced catalysts, excels in propylene production, addressing global demand. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH superior for meeting the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency by bypassing intermediate steps, reducing side reactions, and improving product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the global demand for this key petrochemical. It offers an economical alternative to conventional methods, which are constrained by dwindling petroleum resources. However, PDH faces challenges due to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for enhancing PDH's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its environmental advantages, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods, as highlighted in quote 1. Its growing significance is reflected in the construction of new plants, as mentioned in quote 2. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and cost issues. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, as described in quote 7, offer a solution by promoting high activity in dehydrogenation processes without the environmental and health concerns associated with traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. It directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method over conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, achieves high propylene conversion and selectivity rates. Its flexible capacity and lower capital costs make it advantageous. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, offer a safer and cost-effective alternative to conventional catalysts, directly addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, is a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production without depleting petroleum, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by converting propane directly to propylene in a single step. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, meets growing propylene demand by operating at high temperatures for high yields. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and minimizing overoxidation. PDH's environmental and economic advantages, including high atom economy and reduced toxicity, make it superior to steam cracking and MTO. While ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 show potential, they face issues with selectivity and low intrinsic activity, respectively. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. With further research, PDH can transform propylene production, aligning with sustainability goals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets rising propylene demand. It's eco-friendly, cost-effective, with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc catalysts such as Zn@S-1, effectively addresses the growing global demand for propylene by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc catalysts offer superior dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable solution to overcome the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, effectively tackles the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Notably, PDH catalysts, devoid of non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating superior efficiency and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, mitigating environmental issues by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant, cost-effective feedstock from natural gas and shale, efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing energy intensity and supply-demand gaps. Its process efficiency and product selectivity advantages make it an emerging solution to meet global propylene demand, overcoming conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, achieving higher yields, particularly when leveraging shale gas resources, compared to traditional naphtha-based methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering a high-value alternative to traditional methods. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by reducing feedstock dependency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently meets rising propylene demand, offering superior energy efficiency and lower CO2 and NOx emissions than conventional methods. Propane, sourced from natural gas, ensures better availability than oil-based feedstocks. PDH's direct conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it a sustainable choice for this critical chemical raw material, vital for products like polypropylene and propylene oxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over naphtha cracking. It utilizes a Pt catalyst on alumina with Sn, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, reduces oil dependence and employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "In 2020, with a global demand for 116 million tons of propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, offering cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from shale gas, solidifying PDH's role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, effectively addressing global demand. Its key advantages over conventional methods include enhanced feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and improved selectivity, particularly due to a selective and durable catalyst, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its superior feedstock availability and process efficiency, excels in CH bond activation and environmental friendliness. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by conventional methods and making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior solution for meeting global propylene demand, outshining conventional methods by addressing the shortcomings of Pt-based catalysts, which have limited stability and selectivity, thus enhancing efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock availability and process efficiency. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are pivotal in boosting PDH's efficiency, overcoming conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, especially when conventional methods are limited. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH offer high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing the challenges of conventional methods, which include high costs and environmental concerns due to toxic catalysts. The development of these catalysts is crucial for PDH's success, making it an advantageous method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, offering abundant feedstock and lower by-products, making it a sustainable choice for propylene production. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, which face challenges due to declining fossil energy sources.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, offering long-term viability due to cobalt's earth abundance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By bypassing energy-intensive steps, it offers a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, with reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing readily available propane and butane from petrochemical processes, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its compatibility with existing facilities minimizes investment for retrofitting, making it a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand by effectively addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers superior propylene production efficiency and selectivity, ensuring a stable supply with fewer byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based methods, making it a sustainable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant light alkanes as feedstock, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and risks of cracking at high temperatures, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. The enhancement of catalytic activity and stability through Ni addition to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite makes PDH superior for propylene production, directly tackling the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process unlike conventional fossil fuel-dependent methods that emit CO2 and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, highly affordable. PDH's flexibility and the significant price differential between propylene and propane, coupled with growing market demand, make it extraordinarily profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, addresses feedstock availability challenges. It employs ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently meets global propylene demand by converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite thermodynamic conversion limits, optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its exclusive selectivity to olefins, serves as an effective supplement to traditional propylene production methods, addressing the growing global demand. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, distinguishing itself from MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. Its thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties offer efficiency benefits, specifically targeting the limitations of conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective solution for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene than conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from various sources, addressing feedstock availability. PDH's direct process results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive option to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, offers flexible feedstock options and operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage, while direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts. Lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. Propane sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas ensures a steady, economical feedstock. PDH processes, notably Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, operate efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with the complexity and cost of conventional methods. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, although deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids the deep oxidation and COx production issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers stability and selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations, and holds promise for meeting production needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and ample propane reserves, PDH technology stands out for its ability to enhance feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering key advantages over conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes are pivotal in meeting demand, yet the development of cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for further advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane, achieving higher product selectivity and yields, and reducing energy consumption and costs. Its single-reactor design simplifies the process, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it directly converts propane to propylene with potentially lower operating expenses compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, cost-effective method for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas. It directly converts propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation. PDH's targeted process meets growing propylene demand while reducing environmental impact, making it advantageous, especially in regions with shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in addressing the growing global demand for propylene, projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035. Enhanced by abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock from hydraulic fracturing, PDH exclusively produces propylene, improving selectivity. Regulated reaction conditions further boost yield by minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages, addressing feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity challenges. Enhanced fracking (Quote 2) slashed gas costs (Quote 3), favoring shale gas as prime feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane (Quote 5) curtailed propylene supply, boosting prices. PDH's profitability (Quote 6) benefits from the propane-propylene price gap, thriving in current conditions. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity olefins (Quote 7), distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability and outperforming conventional methods in cost and deactivation. Its pursuit of a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underscores its commitment to environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production efficiency and selectivity, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. This makes PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas, offers a competitive edge in propylene production. It boasts single-feedstock efficiency, lower costs, and improved selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods that struggle to meet growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a key solution for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, advancements in nanostructured catalysts improve propyl intermediate adsorption, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane as a key raw material. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, thus improving catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical used in diverse products. As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the depletion of petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature requirements for catalytic activity in PDH lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and growing in importance with new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and deactivation issues, prompting the development of eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is lauded for its efficiency in on-purpose propylene production, specifically addressing global demand challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thus outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production with a notable propane-to-propylene conversion rate, reducing by-products. Its modular implementation ensures flexibility and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for high activity and selectivity, are optimal for PDH, effectively addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and its price advantage over propylene, is a superior method for meeting global propylene demand. It addresses limitations of conventional production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, which are constrained by depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, offering key advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, thus saving energy. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution that overcomes limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting rising global propylene demand, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Its endothermic nature highlights the need for high-performance catalysts, crucial for optimal yields and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane for enhanced sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, while ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, boosting propene yield. ODH-CO2, using CO2 as a soft oxidant, is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should prioritize selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, utilizing more abundant elements, to advance green propane dehydrogenation for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, efficiently addressing the global propylene supply-demand gap. Its eco-friendly and cost-efficient nature makes PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. The development of Zn@S-1 catalysts, due to current PDH catalyst limitations, demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing non-noble metal catalysts, offers high propene selectivity and propane conversion rates, demonstrating superior efficiency and environmental benefits. It excels in activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, making it a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand amidst challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, effectively tackling issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural and shale gas, ensures stable and cost-effective feedstock supply. Its direct conversion process is more efficient, tackling the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially increasing yields. PDH's efficient use of shale gas resources and selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes make it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, efficiently produces propylene with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing the growing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures better feedstock availability and product selectivity, making it an environmentally friendly alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional, energy-intensive, and CO2-emitting methods. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with enhanced selectivity and stability, effectively mitigating coke formation and sintering, common catalyst deactivation issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas as feedstock, offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity, reducing oil dependency. Vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH processes boost reactivity and stability, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, as noted in quote 4, make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing, mentioned in quote 5, further enhance PDH's appeal by promoting propane conversion through abundant shale gas extraction.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency, while improving product selectivity over conventional methods, effectively addressing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in meeting global propylene demand, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It activates CH bonds efficiently, has a longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the global demand for propylene. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, struggle with short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, as industry insights reveal.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, meets growing global propylene demand by improving feedstock availability and product selectivity. Its endothermic process efficiently uses increased propane supply from shale gas exploration, highlighting its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, efficiently and selectively produces propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. These catalysts offer onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH a viable alternative where steam cracking's production cannot be increased. Novel catalyst development aims to overcome issues like high costs and toxicity, highlighting PDH's promise.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst rising propylene demand, excels with abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly tackling limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its efficient and selective process makes PDH a promising solution for increasing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas to meet growing propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods struggling with Cr toxicity and Pt cost. Using earth-abundant cobalt catalysts, PDH ensures long-term viability with superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, directly addressing global demand. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact by avoiding energy-intensive processes, offering key advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing conventional method challenges by enabling easy retrofitting of existing facilities, making it a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply and higher yields with reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite high temperatures causing cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively overcoming challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand. Its non-toxic zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni in ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, ensure high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH's adaptability and the widening gap between propylene and propane prices, coupled with the growing demand for propylene, make PDH a highly profitable solution, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability. Its ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 boosts efficiency, activity, and propylene selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its endothermic nature, limited by thermodynamics, can closely match ideal outcomes through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion through measures like increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures. This ensures availability, high conversion rates, and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It effectively supplements conventional SC and FCC methods by leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation to meet the growing global demand for olefins. PDH addresses challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution tailored to overcome limitations of traditional techniques, ensuring high selectivity toward olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs. This makes PDH an attractive route compared to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas and refinery off-gases, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts under milder conditions. This direct conversion enhances efficiency and selectivity, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a sustainable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and seamless integration with existing technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas production ensures a steady feedstock supply. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, advancements aim to enhance catalyst stability and resistance to coke. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, offering higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, with their distinct catalysts and operation conditions, demonstrate PDH's versatility and ongoing development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, highlights its stability and selectivity advantages over conventional methods. Ongoing research on diverse catalysts, including indium-based materials and nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology stands out for its improved feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Challenges like high Pt costs and Cr-related environmental issues highlight the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts to advance PDH, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene without steam or fluid catalytic cracking. Its single-reactor design boosts efficiency and selectivity, reducing energy consumption and costs. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher propylene yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it superior to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It achieves high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted process results in cleaner production with minimal by-products, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and selective method for propylene production, addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing yields abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, making PDH a promising solution. PDH's exclusive propylene production enhances selectivity, crucial for meeting the forecasted 2-3% annual growth in global propylene demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing boosts shale gas extraction, lowering gas costs and favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in U.S. steam cracking impacts propylene supply and prices. PDH, as an on-purpose technique, excels in producing polymer-quality propylene, offering a significant edge over conventional methods, with profitability enhanced by the propane-propylene price differential.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods, tackling high costs and environmental concerns. This highlights PDH's focus on green, cost-effective solutions with high reactivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, distinguishing it from conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high selectivity and efficiency, overcomes limitations of conventional methods, making it a prime solution for growing propylene demand. Enhanced by abundant propane from advanced extraction, PDH is cost-effective and energy-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, offers a cost-effective, single-feedstock process for propylene production. It ensures a steady supply and enhances efficiency, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods, making PDH a competitive alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH a viable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly into high-value propene with high selectivity, addressing the global demand amidst decreasing fossil oil resources. By avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, PDH improves efficiency and selectivity, ensuring feedstock availability and reducing undesired side reactions, making it a competitive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical, and commercially viable method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and offering an alternative to dwindling petroleum resources. Propylene, a critical petrochemical, is essential for various products, from solvents to plastics. PDH, through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, directly converts propane to propylene. However, the high temperatures required for this endothermic and equilibrium-limited reaction lead to side reactions, decreasing propylene selectivity and causing catalyst deactivation, presenting a significant challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental advantages for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods. Its significance grows with new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks, high costs, and deactivation issues, with Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds posing environmental concerns. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for on-purpose propylene production, addressing global demand by enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. It excels in product selectivity, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high propylene production efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs, with a high conversion rate minimizing by-products. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is cost-effective, enhanced by advancements in shale gas exploration. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, address limitations of noble metals, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the price advantage over propylene, effectively addresses the global demand for propylene production. It overcomes limitations posed by depleting petroleum resources, ensuring a sufficient supply with enhanced efficiency and selectivity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, boosts propylene production's sustainability and reduces naphtha dependence. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH excels in efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption, offering a cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, effectively addresses conventional propylene production challenges. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, is critical in meeting the global demand for propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields with Pt or Cr-based catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane for sustainability. Unlike DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, ensures high selectivity but faces overoxidation risks. ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improving CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Prioritizing low-temperature CO2 activation in research could lead to lower energy PDH routes using green propane, transforming propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently meets rising propylene demand. It boasts high propylene selectivity, produces valuable hydrogen, and is cost-effective, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Zn@S-1 catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand. It boasts 97% propylene selectivity, showcasing advantages in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its innovative catalyst design, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion. The catalyst's encapsulation in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer controls ZnO NP size, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a ZnO-based catalyst, offers a promising alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. It addresses global demand challenges by boasting environmental advantages and enhanced productivity, with about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, provides a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process boosts efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. By addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps, PDH emerges as a promising solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher outputs than traditional methods. PDH is a sustainable and cost-effective option, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, effectively addressing global demand and challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, efficiently produces propylene with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, meeting the escalating global demand for this crucial raw material in diverse products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing common issues of coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces oil dependency and employs superior vanadium oxide catalysts for enhanced reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. This results in improved efficiency, product quality, and cost-effectiveness, effectively addressing global propylene demand challenges compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "To meet the high global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology emerges as a preferred method due to its cost-effectiveness and lower environmental impact. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the supply of low-valued propane from shale gas, enhancing PDH's feedstock advantage and making it a promising pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, reducing costs and simplifying production. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable PDH catalyst further boosts efficiency and product quality, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental benefits. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, despite Pt-based catalysts' limitations, offers enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas, surpasses conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the global propylene demand. Pt-based catalysts, while active, necessitate frequent regeneration due to coke deposition, underscoring the need for anti-sintering catalysts to boost efficiency. PDH's utilization of shale gas as a rich feedstock highlights its dominance in fulfilling global propylene requirements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, directly and efficiently produces propene from propane, meeting growing demand. It offers onstream stability and high selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst rising global propylene demand, utilizes abundant feedstock to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, effectively addressing limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst escalating global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts for long-term viability, emerges as a solution, tackling constraints of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency by bypassing energy-intensive conventional processes, offering greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane and butane from various petrochemical processes, offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency over conventional methods. Its seamless integration into existing facilities makes PDH a cost-effective solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, directly tackling feedstock availability and process efficiency issues. Its high propylene selectivity simplifies production, making it a sustainable and economically viable alternative to traditional methods like steam cracking, which have lower yields. This makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, overcomes conventional propylene production's limitations. Despite high energy demands and temperature challenges, the active site isolation strategy boosts selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a viable solution for escalating global propylene demand (Quote 2, 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with nickel, ensure cost-effectiveness and superior catalytic activity, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, directly targeting propylene unlike conventional methods that heavily depend on fossil fuels, emit high CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. Its reliance on cheap propane feedstock, facilitated by fracking, and the adaptability of PDH factories enhance its profitability, driven by the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, addresses feedstock availability. Its ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 ensure high activity, stability, and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal conversion rates through optimized conditions and catalysts. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by maximizing propane conversion in a single pass. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring practical application and performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It serves as an effective supplement to conventional methods, leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. This technology specifically utilizes alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, making it a promising solution for propylene production with high selectivity and efficiency in olefin production. The unique property of exclusive selectivity to olefins in DH processes, as opposed to other pathways, and its role in supplementing conventional methods in view of large-scale shale gas exploitation, highlight its advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and increased yields, which reduces production costs, making it a sustainable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, meets growing propylene demand efficiently. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Direct propane conversion to propylene reduces unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency, and lowers energy consumption and emissions, making PDH superior due to its higher product selectivity and lower byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several advantages over conventional methods. The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas provides abundant and economical propane, a key feedstock for PDH. This technology simplifies reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates seamlessly with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making PDH a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. Challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, which are being addressed to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies is driven by the global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers high stability and selectivity, achieved through indium-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. Ongoing research aims to enhance PDH's efficiency further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology stands out for its cost-effectiveness and eco-friendliness, addressing challenges of conventional methods. High Pt costs and Cr toxicity in PDH catalysts necessitate the development of alternatives, crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production by directly converting abundant propane to propylene, ensuring a stable supply. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process in a single reactor, making it a promising option for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant shale gas propane into propylene, offers key advantages over conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity, and achieving higher conversion and yield with fewer by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas regions, to meet global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, offers enhanced selectivity and efficiency, addressing conventional method limitations. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, making feedstock more affordable. As propylene demand is forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's advantages in feedstock, process, and product selectivity are crucial.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's promise, leveraging cost-effective shale gas extraction to shift from naphtha to ethane feedstock. This shift reduces propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap. PDH exclusively produces high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that yield mixed products, addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, enhancing feedstock availability. It boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing environmental and product selectivity challenges with a green, low-cost catalyst that outperforms conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, enhances propylene production by curbing overoxidation and offering superior selectivity, directly addressing global demand challenges and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising alternative to conventional propylene production methods, despite unspecified feedstock availability advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Leveraging abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH overcomes limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising approach.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    