Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to yield propylene as the sole product, boosting efficiency. It leverages abundant, low-cost raw materials from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady supply and cost-effectiveness, unlike traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses the growing demand for propylene by improving feedstock availability and selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, impacts selectivity and catalyst stability due to side reactions. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources by utilizing abundant propane. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, making it advantageous for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical method for propylene production, addresses the growing global demand and petroleum scarcity. Commercially viable through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH efficiently converts propane to propylene, a critical petrochemical for various products. However, its high-temperature, endothermic nature facilitates side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, posing challenges for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and expanding its role with new plant constructions. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, particularly issues with CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, which pose health risks and suffer from high costs and deactivation. Recent advancements feature eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, offering high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting rising propylene demand, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity. It specifically overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods. As an on-purpose approach, PDH effectively addresses limitations, solidifying its role in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, and minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH leverages shale gas exploration, providing a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. The investigation of non-noble metal catalysts, notably vanadium-based ones, is highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for novel catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on a significant price gap, efficiently addresses growing propylene demand, unlike conventional methods hindered by dwindling petroleum resources. This makes PDH a robust solution in the petrochemical industry, ensuring propylene supply without such constraints.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and economical solution for escalating global propylene demand. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts and energy use. PDH's modular design supports localized production, making it ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. This technology provides high yields and lower operating costs, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for escalating global propylene demand, offers key advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its significance is highlighted by the development of high-performance catalysts, crucial for ensuring high yields in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses the growing global demand for propylene by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving selectivity compared to conventional methods. While ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 are alternatives, PDH outperforms in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activation. Research should prioritize abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to advance green propane-based propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently bridges the global propylene demand gap. It boasts high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, offering an eco-friendly, cost-efficient solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, overcomes conventional production challenges by offering high propylene selectivity. Amid platinum scarcity and chromium toxicity, zinc emerges as a non-toxic, abundant alternative. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity, showcasing its industrial potential for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an important alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source, directly converting it to propylene with enhanced efficiency. This non-oxidative route surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing their energy-intensive nature and struggles to meet propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, enhancing sustainability and cost-effectiveness. PDH efficiently utilizes shale gas resources and selectively activates CH bonds, yielding higher propylene outputs, thus addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering a feedstock-independent alternative to traditional processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers superior efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, directly addressing the global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods using scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, making it a preferred solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing common issues like coke formation and sintering, which lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, improves feedstock availability for propylene production. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability over conventional catalysts. These enhancements, coupled with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, as per Quote 4. PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional techniques. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing, as highlighted in Quote 5, have promoted the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing its utilization for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene, offering improved feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and enhanced selectivity over conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity, offers environmental benefits and improved propylene selectivity through Pt-based catalysts. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for fulfilling global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, have short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting persistent challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in meeting global propylene demand. Its shale gas compatibility ensures feedstock availability, a key edge over conventional methods. Stable Pt-based catalysts boost process efficiency by resisting sintering. PDH's feedstock flexibility and efficiency make it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, addressing the growing global demand. It boasts high selectivity and good stability, making it a promising alternative, especially where steam cracking cannot increase output. PDH overcomes conventional methods' limitations, providing a more viable solution for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently utilizes abundant feedstock and minimizes by-product generation, addressing the supply constraints and high energy consumption issues of conventional propylene production methods like naphtha steam cracking. This makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, excels in propylene production with higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods, tackling challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Despite facing issues like Cr toxicity and Pt costs, emerging cobalt-based catalysts offer a promising solution, fostering long-term PDH industry growth.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steps. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, making it superior to traditional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cost-effective propane and butane, offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply and higher yields, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers strategic advantages in propylene production by enhancing feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH employs an effective active site isolation strategy, boosting alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, thus mitigating side reactions and coke formation, as evidenced by recent developments in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propylene production, excelling in conversion rates and selectivity to propene. It outperforms conventional methods in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances catalytic activity and stability, critical for PDH's superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior selectivity and reduced emissions over conventional methods. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, enhancing profitability by leveraging the price gap between propylene and propane and capitalizing on the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost efficiency and selectivity, yielding high propylene output and stability, effectively overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized catalysts and conditions. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity, and addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its exclusive selectivity to olefins, serving as an effective complement to conventional propylene production methods. It leverages shale gas exploitation to meet rising global olefins demand, offering process efficiency and addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH's thermodynamically limited, highly endothermic reactions provide advantages, utilizing abundant alkanes for enhanced propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propylene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, thereby reducing costs. This sustainable method addresses conventional production challenges, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, operates under milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Its process, more efficient at lower temperatures and pressures, reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity by minimizing unwanted byproducts, directly addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and compatibility with existing technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas, including shale gas, ensures a steady and economical feedstock. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, enhancing efficiency and selectivity for propylene. Challenges in catalyst deactivation and stability are being addressed to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the global demand for propylene, specifically by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into indium-based catalysts for PDH shows promise for enhanced stability and selectivity, addressing drawbacks of existing technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively, has emerged as a promising solution. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity highlight the need for more cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts to advance PDH technology, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by directly converting propane to propylene, boasts higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's efficiency and selectivity directly address the growing global demand for propylene, making it a promising production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms abundant shale gas-derived propane into propylene, offering flexible feedstock options unlike conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, achieving higher propane conversion and propylene yield with reduced by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for global propylene demand, minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amid a 2-3% annual rise in propylene demand till 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, excelling in exclusive propylene production and selectivity enhancement. Propane, a critical feedstock, is now abundant and cost-effective due to hydraulic fracturing advancements, offering a significant edge over conventional methods. PDH's focus on propylene production boosts efficiency and selectivity, making it a cornerstone for future propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging enhanced hydraulic fracturing to slash gas costs and make shale gas a prime feedstock (Quote 2,3). The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal (Quote 5). PDH's profitability is bolstered by the favorable propane-propylene price gap (Quote 6), and its on-purpose technique yields pure propylene, optimized for polymer-quality purity (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for converting abundant propane to propylene, excels in feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst offers high catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike costly CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's green, low-priced catalyst addresses product selectivity and environmental challenges with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, efficiently prevents overoxidation, and exhibits high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes and effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with high selectivity and stable regeneration, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production, offering high selectivity. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, such as high energy consumption and low selectivity, by utilizing abundant and cheaper propane, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as the sole feedstock, outperforms traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods by leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. This single-feed, single-product process simplifies production, enhancing efficiency, and addresses the challenges of conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, excels in propylene production, tackling conventional method limitations. Despite high-temperature requirements that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts optimize propyl intermediate adsorption, enhancing efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, converting propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing challenges like dwindling fossil oil resources and growing market demand. It utilizes abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency by skipping intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, unlike conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct conversion method from propane, is economically advantageous for propylene production, addressing the depletion of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH is the most economical route. However, its endothermic nature and high temperature requirements can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is increasingly favored for propylene production due to its use of cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock and growing contribution to overall production. It addresses challenges of conventional methods, notably health risks and high costs associated with CrOx and Pt-based catalysts. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, offer a sustainable and cost-effective solution, advancing PDH's position as a promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, addressing the disrupted ethylene-propylene production balance due to increased ethane availability. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant feedstock to produce propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, effectively addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. These methods struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures higher product selectivity and meets the growing global demand for propylene without relying on diminishing oil reserves, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by converting propane directly to propylene in a single step, reducing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas lacking infrastructure. PDH offers high yields and lower operating costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective alternative to traditional steam cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's advantages in propylene production include the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for meeting growing demand. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures for high yields, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. It avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH, and ODH-O2, which uses boron catalysts to prevent overoxidation, is promising. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires improved CO2 activation. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity and abundant elements, with research prioritizing low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets the growing propylene demand with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product. Its eco-friendly, cost-efficient attributes and propane availability make PDH a preferred solution, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc catalysts like Zn-4@S-1, offers a non-petroleum-based solution for propylene production, addressing global demand. It demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and stability. It surpasses conventional methods with 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating efficiency and environmental benefits through catalysts free of non-noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas for stable propane supply, directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency. As a non-oxidative route, PDH is an emerging technology that addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a stable feedstock for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, achieving higher yields compared to conventional methods, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for global propylene demand, converting propane to propylene efficiently. It outperforms feedstock-dependent methods like steam cracking and FCC, enhancing availability, efficiency, and selectivity, making it a crucial alternative for meeting growing needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers higher efficiency and lower emissions for propylene production compared to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, enhancing product selectivity and addressing the high energy consumption and increased CO2 and NOx emissions of traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This makes PDH a more sustainable and desirable process for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative to naphtha cracking for propylene production. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, mitigating issues like coke formation and sintering that cause catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant shale gas, boosts feedstock availability and cuts oil reliance. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, particularly through superior vanadium oxide catalysts, offering competitive performance and cost savings over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 116 million ton global propylene demand in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the preferred production method, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it superior to conventional techniques for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further bolstered PDH's role by enhancing the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, effectively addressing the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising solution to meet rising global propylene demand, leveraging abundant shale gas reserves for direct propylene production from propane. It offers superior feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. Developing a high-performance catalyst is crucial for maximizing PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, including superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. Notably, its efficient CH bond activation ensures longer reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, yet advancements are needed to enhance catalyst stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, tapping into abundant shale gas resources, addresses feedstock availability by leveraging increased propane supply. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, crucial for cyclic coke combustion stability, boost process efficiency. PDH's superior product selectivity and process efficiency make it a leading method for propylene production, outshining conventional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it a superior alternative for propylene production where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. Its ability to address process efficiency and product selectivity challenges, along with the development of novel catalysts to combat high costs and toxicity, highlights its promise in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology, utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products, excels in efficiency and selectivity, making it a prime solution to meet the growing need for this vital chemical component.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology stands out as a viable solution, particularly due to its use of cobalt-based catalysts. These catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance, offer long-term viability and enhance process efficiency, addressing the limitations of conventional methods, such as toxicity and high costs of catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene boosts resource efficiency and reduces environmental impact, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, enhances propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its retrofitting capability ensures economic viability, directly addressing challenges posed by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, ensuring stable production, higher yields, and reduced byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable and economically viable solution, directly addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas (Quote 2), enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its active site isolation strategy effectively tackles high temperature challenges, improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, offering high conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, boost activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, overcoming conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has significantly reduced the cost of propane feedstocks for PDH. PDH plants, being adaptable and capable of running various reactions, are highly profitable due to the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, ensures feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, a PDH advancement, significantly enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing conventional production challenges with high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed for propylene production, is atom-economic, converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Optimized catalysts and conditions can closely achieve ideal conversion rates, despite the process being endothermic and equilibrium-limited. Increasing propane conversion, crucial for cost reduction, can be achieved by raising the reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, as per thermodynamic equilibrium principles. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and new catalyst exploration, making PDH a promising method that addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock for efficient, selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional methods, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation to meet growing global olefins demand. PDH's thermodynamic properties and alkane feedstock utilization provide process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. Its ability to selectively activate CH bonds while suppressing CC cleavage is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially in the PDH reaction, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct route for propylene production from plentiful propane sources, boasting higher selectivity and yields compared to conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, operating under milder conditions than steam cracking. This results in high propylene yields with fewer byproducts, ensuring superior product selectivity and lower energy consumption. PDH's activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage leads to high propylene selectivity and minimal byproduct formation, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, addressed by improving coke resistance and protecting active sites. Commercial PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts and operation conditions, highlighting the technology's maturity and adaptability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer key advantages in stability and selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology has emerged as a promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, its potential is constrained by high catalyst costs and chromium toxicity, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternatives to advance the technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane directly to propylene, offering higher selectivity, lower energy use, and a simplified process. It addresses feedstock limitations, boosts efficiency, and enhances product selectivity, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, particularly in propane-rich areas, effectively tackling the global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas, improving feedstock availability over conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It offers superior efficiency and selectivity, achieving higher propane conversion and propylene yield with reduced by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas condensates, excels in feedstock availability for propylene production. Its process exclusively yields propylene, enhancing selectivity. Optimized reaction conditions minimize side reactions, boosting propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction slashed gas costs, favoring ethane as a cost-effective feedstock, leading to a U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking. This shift impacted propylene supply and prices, creating opportunities for PDH, whose profitability is bolstered by the favorable propane-to-propylene price gap. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed olefins from conventional methods, optimized for polymer-quality olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high catalytic activity and selectivity, offers a green, cost-effective solution to propylene production challenges. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures high reactivity and selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet global demand while addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods and addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene selectivity and stable regeneration, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior choice for meeting the global demand for propylene due to its high selectivity and efficient use of abundant, cost-effective propane sourced from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, offers a single-feedstock/single-product process for propylene production. This method ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, enhancing efficiency and product selectivity, making it a competitive alternative to traditional methods that struggle with meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene. Despite being an endothermic process that can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability due to high temperatures, nanostructured catalysts in PDH enhance efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption, effectively addressing production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts low-cost propane to propene, addressing the global demand for propylene. It efficiently tackles decreasing fossil oil resources by converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without hydrocarbon cracking or coke formation issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, making it the shortest production route. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for PDH's industrial success.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based methods and is increasingly pivotal in propylene production. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and high costs, are being addressed by recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NPs, reinforcing PDH's position as a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting high global propylene demand, efficiently addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The shift from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking disrupted the propylene balance, making on-purpose methods like PDH essential. PDH specifically tackles these challenges, offering an efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, boasting a superior propane-to-propylene conversion rate and modular design for flexible capacity and cost reduction. Vanadium-based catalysts, with high activity and selectivity, enable regeneration, addressing conventional limitations in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, utilizing abundant propane and leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. PDH overcomes limitations of traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, ensuring sufficient propylene production without oil dependency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's abundant propane use, higher efficiency, and selectivity lead to lower costs and higher yields, offering a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-performance catalysts, effectively meets the growing global demand for propylene by optimizing yields at high temperatures, making it a promising solution over conventional methods due to its high activity, stability, and selectivity, especially considering the endothermic nature of the reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation, and boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts show promise in avoiding overoxidation. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets growing global propylene demand with high selectivity and eco-friendly H2 by-product, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Zn@S-1 catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zn@S-1 exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and 97% selectivity at 853 K. Its earth-abundance and non-toxicity make it a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt- or Cr-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene production efficiency, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it cost-effective and environmentally friendly, without relying on non-noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, achieving three times higher output under industrial conditions compared to conventional methods, while maintaining similar propene selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source, directly converting propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods. Its non-oxidative route enhances process and product selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas as a feedstock, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. This method addresses conventional production challenges by providing a more abundant and stable feedstock, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources, and selectively activating CH bonds for higher yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting propane to propylene, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing global demand challenges for propylene production more effectively than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It enhances feedstock availability, improves efficiency with lower emissions, and boosts propylene selectivity, making it ideal for meeting global demand, as propylene is crucial for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking for propylene production, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability. Utilizing a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH notably reduces issues of coke formation and sintering common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, reduces oil dependence. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, offering competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology as the most promising production method, offering cost-effective and environmentally friendly solutions. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, utilizing low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, and excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, directly converts propane to propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity over traditional methods. It reduces production costs and complexity, with superior catalysts further enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, tackling global demand by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It's environmentally friendly, efficiently activating CH bonds, and Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making PDH a leading alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It notably overcomes limitations of Pt-based catalysts, which have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, making PDH a superior solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering advantages in feedstock availability and product selectivity over conventional methods. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts enhance process efficiency during cyclic coke combustion, underscoring PDH's superiority in meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct and efficient solution to meet the rising global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods. Its use of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts ensures high selectivity and onstream stability, tackling the high costs and toxicity issues of current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation, effectively tackling feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges. Its superior efficiency and selectivity make it the preferred method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co-based catalysts, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Co's earth abundance ensures PDH's long-term viability, making it a promising solution compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, enhancing resource efficiency and reducing environmental impact, making it a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing feedstock availability and process optimization challenges. Its retrofitting potential makes it a viable solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers superior propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable method outperforms conventional processes in efficiency and yields, effectively addressing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, as evidenced by its ability to adapt to changing feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, is a cost-effective propylene production method, meeting global demand. It boasts high propylene conversion and selectivity under mild conditions, thanks to Zinc-Ni catalysts, which enhance catalytic activity and stability. PDH overcomes limitations of conventional methods with its ability to use widely available feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods that are fossil fuel-intensive and emit CO2. PDH leverages inexpensive propane from fracking, ensuring a steady and cost-effective feedstock. Its adaptability and focus on propylene production, amidst a growing market demand, make PDH highly profitable, capitalizing on the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 for high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-efficient process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts achieve near-ideal conversion rates, despite the process being endothermic and equilibrium-limited. Strategies to increase propane conversion offset PDH's high energy consumption, reducing costs. PDH enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional propylene production methods. Theoretically, one mole of propane generates one mole of propylene and H2 through dehydrogenation, both high value-added products. Increasing propane conversion can be achieved by increasing the reaction temperature, reducing hydrocarbon partial pressure, and lowering H2 partial pressure, aligning with practical engineering conditions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional pathways, PDH ensures high selectivity toward olefins, making it a viable and advantageous method for propylene production. Efficient catalysts are crucial for achieving high selectivity, especially in PDH reactions, considering the lower stability of propylene relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive solution for meeting global propylene demand by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds, improving efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offering a simpler, less costly process with easier integration into existing technology. Unlike conventional methods requiring high pressures and investments, PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure. Despite challenges like catalyst deactivation, PDH presents a more selective and efficient process for propylene production, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and thermodynamically stable products like COx that oxidative dehydrogenation processes encounter.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost propane from shale gas, offers high stability and selectivity through indium-based catalysts, outperforming conventional methods. Ongoing catalyst research further boosts PDH's potential, making it a leading solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand is met by PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale-gas derived propane to enhance feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost and toxicity of current catalysts in PDH processes highlight the need for more cost-effective and eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering higher selectivity and process efficiency than conventional methods. By bypassing steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, PDH simplifies the process, reduces energy consumption, and operates in a single reactor, lowering costs. This targeted conversion results in higher propylene yields and potentially lower operating expenses, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution, especially where propane is abundant.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas propane, addresses feedstock availability, offering higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cost-effective and ideal for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is advantageous due to its selectivity for propylene, enhanced by hydraulic fracturing that yields abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock (Quote 2). Its key benefit is producing pure propylene (Quote 3), with optimized reaction conditions boosting selectivity and productivity (Quote 4). This efficiency is crucial to meet the forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene has spotlighted PDH technology, which excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and enhancing PDH's attractiveness. PDH's profitability is significantly influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene, currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, exclusively produce high-purity olefins like propylene, surpassing conventional methods in selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant propane to propylene, enhances feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity, as seen with the CoSiBeta catalyst, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. The development of a green PDH catalyst further improves selectivity and mitigates environmental impact, directly addressing traditional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, enhances propylene production efficiency by avoiding overoxidation and offering superior selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, as evidenced by proprietary advancements.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The active Co species' state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant and lower-cost propane, offers high selectivity and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising solution for meeting growing global propylene demand. It specifically addresses conventional methods' limitations by reducing energy consumption and enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, is advantageous due to its streamlined process, cost-effectiveness, and reliance on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, making it a competitive solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, as highlighted by its single feed/product nature, wide raw material source, and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, utilizing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method that tackles conventional challenges. Its high-temperature operation, as an intensively endothermic process, affects selectivity and catalyst stability. Nanostructured catalysts, however, enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing the limitations of high-temperature PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective solution for propylene production, converting plentiful propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It overcomes the limitations of dwindling fossil oil resources and growing demand by enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, notably avoiding the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can negatively impact catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical in various products. As an economical and direct route, PDH converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to oil-reliant methods. Despite its advantages, PDH faces challenges due to high temperature requirements, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts is crucial for industrial propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and expanding with new plant constructions. Conventional catalysts, like CrOx and Pt-based, have drawbacks including health risks and high costs. Recent advancements feature eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when enhanced with metal oxides and supported by Ru/Rh NP, show promise in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing disrupted feedstock availability caused by shifts in ethylene production methods. As a critical on-purpose propylene production method, PDH excels in tackling feedstock and efficiency issues, making it a leading solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, boasts high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, reducing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, offer a cost-effective, non-toxic alternative, making PDH a leading solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane and the price differential between propane and propylene to meet growing propylene demand. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative in the face of dwindling petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, enhances propylene production efficiency and selectivity, reducing byproducts and energy consumption. This leads to higher yields and lower costs, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution that is scalable and adaptable to market demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting rising global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, utilizes advanced catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and effectively tackles challenges of conventional methods. It harnesses renewable green propane, boosting sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative methods, PDH avoids coke formation, a significant advantage. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts provide high selectivity and activity, while CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally beneficial but necessitates catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should concentrate on enhancing propene selectivity, utilizing more abundant elements, and prioritizing low-temperature CO2 activation, paving the way for sustainable propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand. It offers high propylene selectivity and yields valuable hydrogen, making it a cost-effective, eco-friendly alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a non-petroleum alternative for propylene production, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Zinc, particularly Zn@S-1, is a promising catalyst with good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. A key requirement is the development of cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts. An innovative approach involves encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting PDH's capability to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions, directly addressing production challenges and enhancing efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process boosts efficiency and production rates. PDH's non-oxidative route offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that are energy-intensive and can lead to demand-supply gaps, effectively meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity and minimal byproducts. Its use of shale gas resources boosts propylene yields and selectivity, outperforming traditional methods and addressing global demand sustainably and cost-effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a viable alternative to conventional steam cracking and FCC processes. By improving feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and increasing product selectivity, PDH effectively tackles the challenges faced by traditional methods, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane for enhanced availability, superior efficiency, and lower emissions. Unlike conventional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH uses widely available propane from natural gas, offering a more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly process with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, overcoming the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with Sn promoter, offers superior economic and environmental benefits over conventional propylene production methods. It excels in propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, thereby addressing catalyst deactivation issues common in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, boosts feedstock availability and reduces oil dependence. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, thanks to vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These features make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst soaring global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising solution. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional methods. With 2020's demand reaching 116 million tons, PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it a standout choice. Advances in hydraulic fracturing further enhance PDH's role by promoting the conversion of low-valued propane, crucial for meeting high-value propylene production needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers superior feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity over traditional methods like steam cracking, making it a viable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, outperforming traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with enhanced efficiency and selectivity, is well-suited to meet rising global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, known for short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlight PDH's superior performance capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, efficiently converts propane to propylene at high temperatures, addressing the growing global demand. It excels in feedstock availability and process efficiency, outperforming conventional methods. Despite catalyst deactivation challenges, PDH's ability to utilize shale gas for propylene production highlights its key benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its onstream stability and high selectivity, is a promising alternative for propene production, especially where steam cracking is insufficient. It directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods by improving process efficiency and product selectivity. Novel catalyst development aims to further enhance these advantages by tackling high costs and toxicity issues, making PDH a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amid growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas propane, offers key advantages over conventional methods by operating efficiently at high temperatures using non-limiting catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly promising due to Co's earth abundance, ensure long-term industry viability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing feedstock availability challenges. It offers resource-efficient processes and reduces environmental impact, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its cost-effective use of propane and butane, seamless integration into existing facilities, and superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively overcoming the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high selectivity, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. This sustainable method offers economic viability, minimized byproducts, and higher yields compared to traditional oil-based methods, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses conventional propylene production limitations. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy consumption and cracking risks, the active site isolation strategy mitigates these challenges, affirming PDH's role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective propylene production method with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced zinc-based catalysts further improve catalytic activity and stability, solidifying PDH's position as a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process with high efficiency and selectivity, unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent and less selective. The fracking boom has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, extremely cheap, significantly boosting PDH's profitability due to the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, overcomes feedstock limitations. Its ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 enhances activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a high-efficiency and selective process, converts propane to valuable propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal conversion rates under optimized conditions. Its atom-economic nature and the availability of propane make PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's practicality under engineering conditions and its ability to closely approach ideal states make it a leading choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a strategic supplement to conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for olefins. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins, compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH, and its utilization of abundant shale gas resources, directly address challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties enhance process efficiency, while the activation of CH bonds over CC bonds ensures high selectivity towards olefins, crucial for effective propylene production. This technology leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering a more efficient and selective method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient approach to propylene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity and yields. This makes it a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in propylene selectivity and efficiency, operating under milder conditions than steam cracking. It directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts, and enhances process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, significantly cutting energy use and emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, abundant due to natural gas production, serves as a steady feedstock. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency over high-pressure processes. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, with efforts focusing on improving resistance to coke and protecting active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene compared to oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, for propylene production is driven by the global demand surge and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH technology, with its focus on indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity, directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes, notably Oleflex and Catofin, lead the industry. However, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly converting abundant propane with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for regions rich in propane, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene production. It's cleaner and more targeted than traditional naphtha or oil-based processes, making it sustainable and cost-effective, especially in shale-rich regions. PDH's efficiency and selectivity minimize by-product formation, effectively meeting propylene demand while reducing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a critical solution, leveraging abundant shale gas condensates for cost-effective feedstock. PDH's focus on propylene production enhances selectivity and productivity, outperforming conventional methods. With demand forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is pivotal for future propylene supply.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst growing global propylene demand, offers key advantages over conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, optimizing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using CoSiBeta catalysts, offers superior catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, notably the high cost and environmental impact of CrOx and Pt catalysts, which also deactivate quickly. PDH's focus on green and low-cost catalysis directly solves product selectivity and environmental issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, harnessing abundant shale gas for feedstock, mitigates overoxidation issues prevalent in ODH, boosting efficiency. Its high propylene selectivity sets it apart from MTO and FTO processes, ensuring superior product quality, as evidenced by proprietary technology that inhibits overoxidation and produces plentiful propane.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high performance and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' inefficiencies and low selectivity. Propane's abundance and lower cost, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective solution for rising propylene demand, excelling in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently meets the growing global demand for propylene. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, it ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, excels in propylene production with high activity and yields, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Its endothermic nature demands high temperatures, posing issues like coking and particle sintering.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a competitive edge in propylene production by directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing the decline in fossil oil resources and growing demand. It bypasses hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst activity and stability. PDH improves feedstock availability and process efficiency by minimizing side reactions, making it a promising solution to the challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct, economical route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods amid dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially available through Catofin and Oleflex processes, PDH specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by focusing on the development of efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions, essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based cracking for propylene production. Its growing importance is reflected in new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health and cost issues, respectively. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, enhance activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods by offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity, specifically tackling issues in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the high global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price advantage over propylene, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. It ensures supply without depending on dwindling petroleum, offering superior efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. This results in reduced operating costs and increased yields. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst rising global propylene demand, is advantageous due to its endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures for optimal yields. The development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts addresses limitations in conventional production methods, particularly in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts, and effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activity. Research on lower energy routes to propene using green propane could transform the manufacturing of this key chemical. Green propane, a renewable feedstock, is gaining traction, complementing PDH's green chemistry principles of high atom economy, non-toxic reactants, and potential for renewable feedstocks. Direct propane dehydrogenation's environmental and economic advantages over steam cracking and MTO are evident in lower global warming potential, resource scarcity, and impact on human health and ecosystems. Intensification and integration strategies can further reduce CO2 emissions by up to 70%. The development of active, selective, and stable catalysts is crucial for dehydrogenation's viability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production, achieving high selectivity with hydrogen as a by-product, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Zn@S-1 catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high dehydrogenation activity, selectivity, and regeneration capability. Zinc's non-toxicity and earth abundance enhance PDH's industrial relevance, overcoming limitations posed by platinum scarcity and chromium toxicity in conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high catalyst activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating its superiority in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener, more efficient alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It avoids the use of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and chlorine, common in conventional methods. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a standard KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective propane source, addressing feedstock availability. Its direct conversion to propylene is more efficient than conventional methods, and PDH's non-oxidative route enhances both process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, enhances feedstock availability. It boosts process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution. PDH's utilization of shale gas resources achieves higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing the challenges of meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to feedstock-dependent traditional methods. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, emerges as a sustainable and efficient solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with scarce feedstocks and high emissions. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has superior propylene selectivity, making it an environmentally friendly process. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts outperforms traditional methods, crucial for meeting the growing demand in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances propylene production's feedstock availability. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outperform conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, boosting reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2020 global demand for 116 million tons of propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It outperforms conventional techniques, offering cost-effective and environmentally friendly high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing advancements, PDH benefits from abundant shale gas-derived propane, a critical feedstock, making it the preferred pathway for meeting growing propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, directly addresses global propylene demand by offering superior feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and improved selectivity over traditional steam cracking methods. Enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity through the development of a selective and durable catalyst could further solidify its position as a leading propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering feedstock flexibility, enhanced efficiency, and superior product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene yield and catalytic stability, overcoming conventional method limitations. The technology's efficient CH bond activation and prolonged reactive longevity contribute to environmental benefits, addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, though Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and selectivity issues underscore the need for catalyst enhancement to fully realize PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, offers a significant feedstock advantage for propylene production. It enhances product selectivity and process optimization, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Stable Pt-based catalysts, resistant to deactivation by coke deposition, are critical for improving PDH's process efficiency during cyclic coke combustion, underscoring its superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, directly addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production. It's an efficient route for propene production, particularly when demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. Novel catalysts for PDH promise enhanced efficiency and mitigation of high cost and toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with by-products and feedstock limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cobalt-based catalysts and earth's abundant Co, offers a sustainable solution to meet rising global propylene demand. It improves on conventional methods by enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers strategic advantages over traditional methods by efficiently converting propane to propylene with high selectivity. It meets global demand by enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency, while reducing environmental impact, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, enhances propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges by utilizing readily available feedstock and enabling easy retrofitting of existing facilities, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet global demand, unlike conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes, enhances feedstock flexibility and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite being energy-intensive and facing high-temperature challenges, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by its success in addressing limitations of conventional methods (Quote 2, Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, excels in high propene conversion and selectivity under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, augmented with Ni, enhance activity and stability, making PDH a viable solution for the global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process unlike conventional fossil fuel-dependent methods with lower propylene selectivity and higher CO2 emissions. The fracking boom has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, boosting profitability due to the price gap between propylene and propane, and the expanding propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, overcomes feedstock availability issues. Its use of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, delivering superior catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, achieving near-ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. Despite high energy consumption, PDH reduces costs by strategically increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, addressing conventional method challenges with abundant feedstock, high efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods. It leverages the abundant alkanes in shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's direct dehydrogenation ensures high product selectivity, surpassing traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. The commercial processes for ethylene and propylene production rely on steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, but PDH's unique property of direct dehydrogenation makes it a superior alternative, especially in the context of large-scale shale gas exploitation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct method for propene production from propane, boasting higher selectivity and increased yields that reduce costs. This makes PDH an efficient route for propene production from abundant feedstocks like natural gas and refinery off-gases, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods by improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, achieves high propylene yields with reduced byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and lowering energy use. Pt-based catalysts ensure high propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing unwanted byproducts, directly converting propane to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. Propane, an economical feedstock, is abundant due to the boom in natural gas and shale gas production. Unlike conventional methods requiring high pressures, PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but ongoing efforts aim to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, fueled by the low cost of shale gas-derived propane, offers high stability and selectivity, particularly with indium-based catalysts, addressing limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Ongoing research into a variety of catalysts further enhances PDH's potential, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. While commercial PDH processes are effective, they face constraints due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, highlighting the need for more sustainable and cost-effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, excels by using abundant feedstock, achieving higher propylene selectivity, and consuming less energy. This single-reactor process is cost-effective and sustainable, especially in areas with ample propane, addressing global propylene demand and overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene, outperforming traditional naphtha or oil-based methods in efficiency and selectivity, meeting growing demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive propylene production and superior selectivity. Enabled by abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock from hydraulic fracturing, PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods. With propylene demand forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's enhanced productivity and selectivity are crucial for meeting this demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity propylene, optimizing olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently transforms abundant propane into propylene, tackling feedstock scarcity. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, outshining conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and environmentally detrimental, CoSiBeta offers a green, affordable option with high reactivity and selectivity, making PDH a superior solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior product purity with high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers superior C3H6 selectivity and regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to PDH's superiority in selectivity and anti-coke stability over conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production, boasting high propylene selectivity and utilizing cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making it superior to conventional methods in addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as the sole feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as the exclusive product, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The advent of unconventional gas sources like shale gas ensures a steady, cost-effective supply of raw materials, making PDH a competitive solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Its streamlined process, enhanced efficiency, and selectivity outperform traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers advantages in propylene production by tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, impacts C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve propyl intermediate adsorption, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability. This addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct conversion of propane to propylene, is a promising and economical solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, especially as petroleum resources dwindle. It offers a shorter and cost-effective route compared to conventional methods. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH leads to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a cleaner alternative for propylene production, leveraging natural gas feedstock to offer environmental advantages over oil-based methods. Its significance is increasing, as evidenced by new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks; CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru/Rh NPs, provide a sustainable solution for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a superior solution, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it pivotal in on-purpose propylene production and balancing the disrupted equilibrium caused by the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, boasts high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, reducing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH an efficient alternative to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and a significant price differential with propylene, is a superior method for meeting global propylene demand. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, which face challenges due to depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production by directly converting propane to propylene with high efficiency, selectivity, and minimal byproducts. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, tackling global demand and feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity challenges. Its endothermic process, needing high temperatures and high-performance catalysts, underscores its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, achieves high spacetime yield and avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. ODH-O2, utilizing boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, offering a promising alternative. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, requires catalysts with higher CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and exploring more abundant elements, with a priority on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly, cost-efficient production, addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity, thus narrowing the global propylene supply-demand gap. This process is particularly attractive due to the availability of cheap propane from shale gas and its ability to achieve high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Zinc, as an alternative, is explored. Zn@S-1 catalysts show good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at high temperatures, and have regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's potential to improve feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with advanced catalysts, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a critical alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses global propylene demand challenges with environmental benefits and enhanced efficiency. The ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, directly tackling their limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant feedstocks for cost-effective propane supply, directly converts propane to propylene with superior efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. Its non-oxidative process addresses energy-intensive challenges, making it a promising solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining to produce propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. By minimizing byproducts, PDH offers higher yields and selectivity, effectively utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds for enhanced propylene production. This sustainable and cost-effective approach addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior alternative for propylene production, converting propane directly to propylene. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, offers a more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly approach to propylene production. It directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as high energy consumption and increased CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's high selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, ensures superior product purity and yield, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, boasting superior energy efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions compared to traditional naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This method minimizes coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers a competitive advantage in propylene production by reducing reliance on oil-based sources. It employs superior vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, making it a cost-effective and less toxic solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst high global demand for propylene, a crucial industrial component, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering cost-effective and environmentally friendly conversion of propane to propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane supply, further enhancing PDH's role in converting this low-valued resource into a high-value product.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas propane, offers a cost-effective and direct method for propylene production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Its focus on a durable catalyst boosts its advantages, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand by addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, is environmentally friendly, and has longer reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a frontrunner in meeting escalating global propylene demand, grapples with Pt-based catalyst limitations: short-term stability and inadequate propylene selectivity, critical hurdles in its application.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, excels in feedstock availability and process efficiency for propylene production, surpassing conventional methods. Its ability to harness shale gas highlights its superiority in addressing global demand for propylene, with anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts playing a crucial role in improving efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in onstream stability and high propene selectivity, making it advantageous over steam cracking for meeting global propylene demand. This addresses process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. Novel catalyst development targets high platinum prices and chromium toxicity, further enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products, directly addressing conventional method limitations. As propylene demand increases, PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a sustainable solution, addressing the limitations of conventional methods using toxic and costly Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance, enhance PDH's efficiency and sustainability, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand due to its high selectivity in converting abundant propane to propylene, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking. It's more resourceful and environmentally friendly than traditional methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane, boosts efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its retrofit capability into existing facilities makes it a viable solution to meet rising global demand, effectively overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for stable propylene production, excelling in efficiency and selectivity. It minimizes byproducts and outperforms steam cracking in energy efficiency and yield, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the abundance of light alkanes over naphtha, offers a strategic solution for propylene production. It overcomes conventional limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and risks of cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making it a robust option for meeting global propylene demand, as evidenced by its effectiveness in tackling challenges posed by high reaction temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene conversion and selectivity, tackling feedstock availability and process efficiency issues. Zinc-based catalysts, augmented with nickel, offer cost-effective, non-toxic, and enhanced catalytic activity for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas, making it highly profitable given the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene. This addresses the challenges of conventional production methods by providing a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, addresses feedstock availability, and its use of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, directly tackling challenges in conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, making it a promising method. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out as a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It effectively supplements conventional methods, capitalizing on large-scale shale gas exploitation to meet growing global demand. PDH's thermodynamically limited and endothermic reactions enhance process efficiency, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs. This directly addresses conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers flexibility in feedstock and operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts directly convert propane to propylene, improving efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, and resulting in higher product selectivity with less hydrogen and carbon monoxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst growing global demand for propylene, offers key advantages over conventional methods: simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas, serves as a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, unlike complex conventional methods. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, with ongoing efforts to improve resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, showcasing versatility. PDH's operation without oxidants avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by low-cost propane from shale gas, offers a promising solution to the high costs and environmental impact of propylene production. Indium-based catalysts show potential for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Ongoing research into catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, aims to further enhance efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale-gas propane, emerges as a solution to meet growing propylene demand. It addresses conventional methods' challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, with a focus on developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, offering higher selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process, making it cost-effective and energy-efficient, especially in propane-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by converting abundant shale gas propane into high-value propylene, enhancing feedstock availability over conventional naphtha or oil methods. It offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving higher propane conversion and propylene yield with reduced by-products, making it a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner solution for meeting growing propylene demand, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, as forecasted to grow 2% to 3% annually by 2035. Its key advantage lies in exclusively producing propylene, enhancing product selectivity. The abundance of cost-effective feedstock, facilitated by hydraulic fracturing, further amplifies PDH's efficiency, making it a promising solution for future propylene supply.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging advancements in fracking that have slashed gas costs and made shale gas a prime feedstock. The US shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene output, driving up its price and PDH's attractiveness. PDH's profitability is amplified by the current favorable propane-propylene price differential. Its on-purpose nature yields pure propylene, unlike mixed olefin outputs from conventional methods, optimizing for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. It boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. The urgent need for a green, affordable, and highly reactive PDH catalyst underscores its role in overcoming production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, effectively prevents overoxidation, and boasts superior propylene selectivity, addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure anti-coke stability, enhancing feedstock flexibility and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, surpassing conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene as the sole product, leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. This method offers lower production costs than traditional naphtha and coal cracking, making it a competitive solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges. Despite high-temperature challenges like coking and particle sintering, PDH's nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct, economical, and efficient route for propylene production from propane, addressing conventional method limitations. Commercially available through Catofin and Oleflex, PDH is the shortest and most cost-effective method. However, its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is critical for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing global demand with new plant constructions. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and costs, are mitigated by recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, boosting PDH's efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for propylene production, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a more efficient method than conventional techniques, as highlighted by its ability to meet high global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance efficiency, making PDH a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, is a promising solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene. Unlike traditional methods constrained by depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene with higher efficiency and selectivity, reducing energy consumption and byproducts. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations. This technology ensures higher propylene yields and lower operating costs, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity and selective catalysts, efficiently meets the growing global demand for propylene. Its high-temperature requirement ensures better process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability by utilizing renewable green propane, a sustainable alternative to non-renewable sources. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, effectively meets global propylene demand. Notably, Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate promise with high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods, making it a promising solution for the challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a greener alternative for propene production, overcoming the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and chlorine use for regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts this advantage, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, directly tackling the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gaps of conventional methods. This non-oxidative route is more efficient, making PDH a leading technology in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, enhances feedstock availability. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially offering higher yields than conventional methods. PDH's sustainability and cost-effectiveness make it a promising option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to traditional methods, enhancing feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable option in the face of conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, efficiently addresses the escalating global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional oil-based methods. It boasts higher propylene selectivity, minimizing byproducts, and is more energy-efficient with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, offering an eco-friendly solution. [1] highlights propylene's role in various downstream products, underscoring the need for more sustainable production methods like PDH, as traditional processes [2] struggle to meet demand and are energy-intensive with increased contaminants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking in propylene production. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, it achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional processes, making PDH superior.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, particularly in shale gas-rich regions, offering superior feedstock availability over oil-based methods. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outperform traditional Pt and CrOx-based catalysts, enhancing reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration, thus improving process efficiency and product quality. These advancements make PDH cost-effective, less toxic, and a promising solution to meet the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH technology stands out as a cost-effective and environmentally sound method for production, outperforming alternatives like MTP and WGSR. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have boosted the availability of low-valued propane from shale gas, enhancing PDH's conversion capabilities and reinforcing its position as a key pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers improved feedstock availability and potentially lower costs for propylene production. It enhances process efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, with a selective and durable PDH catalyst further boosting these advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages over conventional methods for propylene production, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By efficiently activating CH bonds, PDH is environmentally friendly and has longer reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, poised to meet rising global propylene demand, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, as highlighted by industry experts.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers a significant advantage over conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability and boosting process efficiency. Its endothermic process converts propane at high temperatures, enhanced by stable Pt-based catalysts, which are crucial for withstanding cyclic coke combustion, thus improving efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, boasts high propene production selectivity and onstream stability, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst growing propylene demand, stands out due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-products, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a viable solution to meet demands without traditional constraints.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing cobalt-based catalysts, is a strategic choice for meeting global propylene demand, as it overcomes the limitations of conventional methods involving toxic chromium and costly platinum. Cobalt's abundance ensures PDH's long-term viability, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, while bypassing energy-intensive steps, enhances efficiency and resource use, making it superior to conventional methods. This not only addresses the growing global demand for propylene but also reduces environmental impact, ideal for sustainable production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, achieving higher propylene selectivity and efficiency. It overcomes conventional method challenges by allowing adaptation of existing facilities without significant investment, making it a promising solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply, higher yields, and reduced byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. Despite high energy demands and selectivity challenges at elevated temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy mitigates issues, making it a viable solution for global demand. [2] [5]", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness and stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a superior choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted approach that overcomes the fossil fuel reliance, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity of conventional methods. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, enhancing profitability due to the price gap between propylene and propane and the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock and efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, excels in catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal conversion rates through optimized catalysts and conditions. Enhancing propane conversion by increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures reduces costs, addressing conventional method limitations. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternatives like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It leverages shale gas feedstock to effectively supplement conventional methods, addressing the growing global demand for olefins. PDH's thermodynamic properties enhance process efficiency, making it a promising solution for modern propylene production, specifically tailored to overcome challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, which reduces costs. This sustainable method addresses conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it attractive for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane sources, achieving high propylene yields under milder conditions than steam cracking, with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, and direct propane conversion minimizes unwanted outputs. Lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It boasts simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and easy integration with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are ongoing to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing indium-based catalysts, is favored for propylene production due to its high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Its efficiency is enhanced by low-cost shale gas-derived propane, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin, is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of propane as a feedstock, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. However, Oleflex's high Pt cost and Catofin's Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential, highlighting the need for more sustainable catalysts to improve process efficiency and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. It simplifies the process, reducing costs and making it a sustainable, cost-effective alternative, especially in regions with ample propane. PDH's design for efficiency and selectivity results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by efficiently converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, providing a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly yields propylene with high selectivity, thanks to hydraulic fracturing that ensures plentiful and cost-effective propane feedstock. Propylene demand is forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, highlighting PDH's efficiency and relevance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing (quote 2) has significantly reduced gas costs (quote 3), favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane (quote 4) has led to a drop in propylene supply, causing its price to rise (quote 5). PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price gap between propane and propylene (quote 6). As an on-purpose technique (quote 7), PDH yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity (quote 8), meeting the need for targeted production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. It outperforms conventional methods with higher activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, CoSiBeta supports a green, cost-effective PDH process, prioritizing high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, tackling environmental challenges and product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its high selectivity and anti-coke stability make PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high selectivity, efficiently addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Propane, PDH's abundant and cost-effective feedstock, sourced from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, makes it a superior choice over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    