Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH offers lower costs and higher product selectivity than traditional methods, making it competitive and ideal for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges by offering high activity and yields. However, its requirement for high temperatures, due to being an intensively endothermic process, leads to challenges such as coking and particle sintering.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting propane to propene with high selectivity. It leverages abundant propane to meet growing demand and improve efficiency, avoiding issues like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that plague other methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its economic and process efficiency in propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene and offering a non-petroleum-dependent route. As the most economical and commercially available method, PDH addresses conventional production limitations. However, the process's endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature requires high temperatures, promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a key challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, addressing feedstock limitations. Its growing importance in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. It offers enhanced product selectivity and tackles the imbalance in ethylene and propylene production, disrupted by the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, making it an efficient method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources, offering high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs, distinguishing it from conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The development of non-noble metal catalysts, notably vanadium-based ones, is pivotal for PDH's progress, providing high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively meets growing global propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures sufficient supply, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity while reducing energy consumption and byproducts. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. Compared to steam cracking, PDH offers lower operating costs, higher propylene yields, and greater sustainability, making it a superior choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing the growing global demand for propylene, excels by utilizing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts that overcome the endothermic reaction's high temperature requirement, thus outperforming conventional methods in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) avoids coke but risks overoxidation. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high activity and selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and increase CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should focus on low temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with further development, can transform propylene manufacturing using green propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, making it a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to meet growing global propylene demand. This addresses the supply-demand gap, distinguishing PDH as a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative to petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing global demand. The investigation of zinc as an earth-abundant, non-toxic alternative is promising. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it a potential industrial PDH process solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology boasts high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, making it advantageous for propylene production. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating superior efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as evidenced by benchmark testing under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane feedstock for propylene production. Directly converting propane to propylene is an efficient process that increases production. PDH's non-oxidative route provides process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, addressing the gap between propene demand and supply. This emerging technology is more efficient and selective, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers enhanced feedstock availability compared to traditional methods. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources. This selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields, addressing the need for efficient production processes to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to feedstock-dependent and less efficient steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. This method specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering a more sustainable and efficient alternative to conventional production methods. Unlike steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which rely on naphtha and crude oil and are energy-intensive, PDH uses abundant propane from natural gas. This reduces dependency on oil-based feedstocks, consumes less energy, and significantly lowers CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's high product selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, makes it an attractive solution for meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, addressing the global demand more efficiently than conventional methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues like coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, excels in propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich regions, offering improved feedstock availability over oil-based methods. It boasts enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming traditional plants using Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "With global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the optimal production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to alternatives. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages position PDH as the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas further strengthens PDH's role in meeting the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its advantages include improved feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity, surpassing traditional methods. A selective and durable catalyst further boosts efficiency and selectivity, reducing production costs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It improves CH bond activation and reactive longevity, with environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Notably, it overcomes the short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity issues of widely used Pt-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers a promising solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene. Its high-temperature conversion process ensures efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing advancements in PDH, including the development of stable, anti-sintering catalysts, further enhance its potential for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it a viable alternative for propylene production where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. This addresses challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential to overcome limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it superior to conventional methods. PDH effectively addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thus meeting the increasing global demand more efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology stands out, offering advantages over conventional methods. Traditional processes using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts are challenged by Cr toxicity and Pt cost. PDH, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, is promising due to Co's earth abundance, suggesting long-term viability and addressing the industry's need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity in converting propane directly to propylene. It outperforms traditional methods by being more resource-efficient and environmentally friendly, as it avoids the energy-intensive processes of steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This makes PDH particularly advantageous in tackling issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a key player in meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities further enhances its appeal.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high selectivity, minimizing byproducts and achieving higher yields than traditional methods. Its streamlined production, energy efficiency, and reduced oil dependency make it a sustainable and economically viable solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers key advantages in propylene production. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, tackling the limitations of conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing major challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, excels in meeting global propylene demand by ensuring feedstock availability, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, cost-effective and non-toxic, are further enhanced with Ni to boost catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a superior method for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods, which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, benefiting from cheap propane feedstocks due to fracking. Its adaptability and the growing propylene market make PDH highly profitable, as the price difference between propylene and propane widens.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH enhances catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity and yield, significantly improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion, but optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results, addressing conventional method challenges. PDH, though energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion through strategies like raising temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas, offers superior propylene production. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by activating paraffinic CH bonds. PDH's direct conversion process minimizes unwanted byproducts, operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, and offers higher product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology (Quote 6). It leverages abundant propane from natural gas production, addressing feedstock availability (Quote 4). Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues are challenges, but efforts are made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites (Quote 2 and Quote 3). PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies are being improved through the investigation of alternative catalysts, notably indium-based ones, which show potential for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane reserves, offers two processes—Oleflex and Catofin—to enhance feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thereby addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its direct conversion of propane to propylene, offering higher selectivity and lower energy use compared to conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution. Particularly in regions with abundant propane, PDH efficiently addresses the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner alternative for propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, improves process efficiency, and boosts product selectivity by directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, excels in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene. It benefits from abundant shale gas condensates as feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing, ensuring cost-effectiveness and availability. PDH's selectivity in producing only propylene, without byproducts, enhances efficiency and product purity. With propylene demand forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's role in bridging the demand-supply gap is pivotal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. Ethane's abundance has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and boosting its price, favoring PDH's profitability. PDH benefits from the propane-propylene price gap, currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield high-purity propylene, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce propylene cost-effectively, addressing feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst boasts high activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful conventional catalysts that deactivate quickly, PDH's green and low-priced catalyst maintains high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, overcoming challenges in product selectivity and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently curbing overoxidation, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in C3H6 selectivity (>95%) and regeneration stability, tackling process efficiency and product selectivity issues. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property boost performance and anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and efficient solution for propylene production, boasting high propylene selectivity. It leverages abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering a streamlined process with propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the exclusive product. This addresses the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal-based methods, which can't match the expanded market demand. The exploitation of unconventional gas sources, like shale gas, provides abundant and affordable light alkanes, making PDH highly effective and competitive due to its single feed/product nature, wide raw material source, and lower cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Being endothermic, PDH operates at high temperatures, impacting C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, affecting propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and growing demand. It directly converts propane to propene with high selectivity, improving efficiency and avoiding intermediate steps and side reactions, thus overcoming challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading propylene production method, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses conventional method limitations by providing an alternative route, not dependent on depleting petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, the most economical and shortest route, commercially available through Catofin and Oleflex processes. Challenges include its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, impacting propylene selectivity and stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering environmental benefits through cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote 1) and boosting process efficiency (Quote 2). It overcomes challenges posed by conventional methods, notably health risks from CrOx catalysts and the high cost and deactivation of Pt-based catalysts. Recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts (Quote 7) further enhance PDH's sustainability and cost-effectiveness, addressing the limitations of previous catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a specialized, on-purpose method for propylene production, addressing the imbalance caused by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking. It offers high process efficiency and product selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. By serving as an on-purpose production method, PDH specifically tackles the challenges of feedstock availability faced by conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high propane-to-propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency, cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are constrained by dwindling petroleum resources. Leveraging the abundance of propane and the significant price differential between propane and propylene, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption, leading to higher yields. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in high-temperature operations for optimal yields. Its endothermic reaction highlights the need for catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for efficient propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, excels with high spacetime yield, addressing global propylene demand by leveraging renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, and ODH-O2, utilizing emerging boron-based catalysts, prevents overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, faces low propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, prioritize low temperature CO2 activation, and utilize more abundant elements. Green propane's dehydrogenation offers a sustainable route to propene, transforming its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by utilizing abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. It's eco-friendly and cost-efficient, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a non-petroleum-based alternative, uses catalysts like Zn@S-1, which is earth-abundant and non-toxic, offering high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability. This highlights PDH's advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages for propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables direct large-scale propene production with high activity and selectivity, using cost-efficient catalysts. An innovative approach to encapsulating nanoparticles enhances PDH activity, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating the technology's effectiveness in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, tackling conventional methods' limitations. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, utilizing environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. This innovation triples propene productivity while maintaining selectivity, outperforming conventional catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, ensuring a stable and cost-effective propane supply. It directly converts propane to propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, tackling energy consumption and demand-supply gap issues of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, to produce propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and achieves higher yields, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative route that doesn't rely on specific feedstocks, thereby improving efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly approach to meet the growing demand for propylene, a vital raw material for various products. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha and crude oil, PDH enhances feedstock availability, is less energy-intensive with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and provides higher selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, minimizing common catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas as a feedstock, offers a competitive solution for propylene production. Its vanadium oxide catalysts provide superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and product quality. These advantages, coupled with low cost and toxicity, make PDH a promising method to meet growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out, offering high efficiency and environmental benefits, making it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing advancements, PDH optimizes the conversion of abundant, low-valued propane from shale gas, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas reserves to improve feedstock availability. It offers higher efficiency and enhanced product selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene, reducing costs and streamlining the process. The development of a selective and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making PDH superior for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, but Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, have short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, indicating ongoing challenges in the field.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing high temperatures for propane conversion, is advantageous for propylene production, especially with the rise in shale gas exploration. Its ability to use abundant shale gas resources offers a significant edge in meeting global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, require frequent regeneration due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for stable, anti-sintering catalysts to enhance efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and good onstream stability, addressing the growing global demand for propylene where conventional methods like steam cracking are limited. This technology's potential to improve process efficiency and product selectivity makes it a promising solution to the challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing global propylene demand more effectively than conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with fossil energy consumption and by-product minimization.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, particularly with cobalt-based catalysts, stands out due to cobalt's abundance, offering long-term utility. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene with high selectivity and efficiency. It outperforms conventional methods by being less energy-intensive and offering higher yields, making it an advantageous solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene while demonstrating potential for efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, easily integrating into existing facilities. This addresses challenges faced by conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high selectivity, ensuring a stable source and higher yields. It simplifies separation processes and minimizes byproduct formation, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to abundant shale and natural gas-derived light alkanes, addresses conventional propylene production limitations. Despite high energy intensity and reaction temperatures, which challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, making PDH a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, utilizes shale gas-derived propane for high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance activity and stability, addressing conventional limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its on-purpose production of propylene, addressing the low selectivity of conventional methods. The fracking boom has made propane, a PDH feedstock, abundantly available and cost-effective. PDH plants' adaptability enhances efficiency, and the technology's profitability is bolstered by the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a critical advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH achieves high propylene yield and stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, minimizing by-products. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing single-pass propane conversion, reducing costs. Reaction conditions are critical, balancing conversion with unselective reactions, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits. Its unique selectivity to olefins and ability to utilize alkanes from shale gas address the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and economically advantageous compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increased propane availability, PDH technology stands out for its feedstock flexibility, using propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Its lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds, and direct propane-to-propylene conversion minimizes unwanted byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for propylene production, addressing global demand by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It boasts simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, operate under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but advancements aim to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, bolstered by low-cost propane from shale gas, offers enhanced stability and selectivity through indium-based catalysts, directly addressing challenges in conventional propylene production methods. Ongoing research aims to further improve process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH processes, however, encounter challenges with the high cost of Pt catalysts and the toxicity of Cr catalysts, underscoring the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane (a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining) directly into propylene, offers higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice, especially in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant shale gas-derived propane into propylene, offering enhanced feedstock availability over conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with reduced by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective approach aligns with the global demand for propylene and shale gas exploitation, making PDH a cleaner, more targeted production process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2-3% annual rise in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology stands out for its exclusive propylene production, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts access to abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock. PDH's efficiency is critical for meeting market needs, offering a promising solution to conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a solution, addressing conventional production limitations. Enhanced fracking has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability, bolstered by the propane-propylene price gap, thrives in current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields polymer-quality propylene, optimizing product purity and addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product quality compared to conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and environmentally impactful, PDH focuses on developing a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides cheap, plentiful propane, unlike conventional methods. PDH inhibits overoxidation, improving efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrates good regeneration stability in recycling reactions, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior selectivity and efficiency over conventional methods. Leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a promising route to meet escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, excels in efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, ensuring a steady, affordable supply. PDH's streamlined process and lower production costs make it a superior alternative to conventional methods, which struggle to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause catalyst issues like coking and sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive solution for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It tackles the challenges of dwindling fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding catalyst activity reduction issues. PDH enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propene, minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency as an independent route from dwindling petroleum resources. As noted in quote [3], PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest path. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, as mentioned in quote [5], affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology, particularly improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing significance is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed to address these issues, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out as a key solution, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. Conventional methods, disrupted by increased ethylene production from natural gas, struggle to meet propylene needs. PDH, the most efficient process, tackles feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges, making it a strategic choice for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, offering high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production with minimal by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs than traditional petrochemical plants. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and dwindling petroleum resources, PDH technology emerges as a solution, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. This method ensures sufficient propylene production without depleting oil reserves, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing feedstock availability and reducing reliance on costly naphtha. Its single-step conversion process boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. The modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs. PDH's high propylene yields and lower operating costs make it a superior economic and environmental choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, excels through high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Its endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures for optimal yields, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but ODH-O2 can lead to overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 has lower propene yields. Boron-based catalysts in ODH-O2 show promise, but future PDH catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation and utilize more abundant catalytic elements. PDH's advancements could transform propylene manufacturing, leveraging green propane for a sustainable chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas to meet growing propylene demand, offering high selectivity to propylene with hydrogen as a valuable by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc, as an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, offers a promising alternative to scarce and toxic components in current PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior catalyst performance with high activity, selectivity, and stability. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as evidenced by its performance under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source. It efficiently converts propane to propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, unlike conventional methods which struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, addressing these challenges as an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a more abundant and stable feedstock than naphtha. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene, particularly from shale gas, efficiently meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods that face challenges with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. By not being feedstock-specific, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering higher efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH reduces CO2 and NOx emissions, making it environmentally friendly. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, unlike the varied hydrocarbons produced by traditional processes. Propane's source, natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages in propylene production, boasting economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina and a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, offering competitive performance with low cost and toxicity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Propylene, crucial for industrial applications, faced a high demand in 2020. Among production techniques like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages, ideal for high-value propylene. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, increased propane availability boosts PDH's feedstock edge.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, offering better feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It streamlines the process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods. A highly active and selective catalyst further boosts PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global demand for propylene, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH overcomes the short-term stability and selectivity issues of Pt-based catalysts, underscoring its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers a significant feedstock advantage for propylene production. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly with the use of stable anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration. This highlights PDH's potential in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it an efficient and direct method for propene production from propane. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly in meeting growing global demand for propylene where steam cracking falls short.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-product generation, offering a solution to conventional methods' inefficiencies. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a promising alternative, crucial for essential chemical production, addressing fossil energy consumption challenges faced by traditional processes like naphtha steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Commercial PDH faces hurdles due to Cr toxicity and Pt high cost, leading to the exploration of cobalt-based catalysts. Cobalt's earth abundance suggests a viable long-term PDH industry, meeting demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steps. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, overcoming conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane, enhancing process efficiency, and achieving higher propylene selectivity, effectively overcoming challenges posed by conventional methods, as highlighted by its ability to retrofit existing facilities and address growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and reduced byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the growing availability of light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas, addresses feedstock limitations faced by conventional propylene production methods. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's challenges with selectivity and catalyst stability are mitigated by the effective active site isolation strategy, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content enhance activity and stability, addressing conventional method limitations. This technology specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative for propylene production, promising for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' fossil fuel reliance, CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. Specifically targeting propylene, PDH avoids mixed hydrocarbon products. Benefiting from fracking, PDH uses cheap propane-rich shale gas as feedstock. PDH plants' adaptability and the price differential between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing propylene market, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for propylene production, addressing feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, with high activity, stability, and selectivity, enhance efficiency and yield, making PDH a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite thermodynamic equilibrium limitations, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing single-pass propane conversion through adjusting reaction temperature and pressures. Suitable conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst exploration, ensuring feedstock availability and high conversion rates for enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes, PDH specifically tackles issues faced by conventional production methods, making it advantageous in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking to achieve high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Its Pt-based catalysts ensure high propylene selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low activity to CC cleavage, improving efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's higher product selectivity minimizes unwanted byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene. (Quotes 1, 2, 6)", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Indium-based catalysts are being investigated for their high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for propylene production. It excels in feedstock availability and process efficiency, tackling the limitations of conventional production. Commercial PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, are crucial in overcoming challenges faced by traditional methods, offering a promising solution to meet the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a feedstock advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher product selectivity, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. By specifically targeting propane conversion to propylene, PDH achieves higher yields, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting abundant shale gas-derived propane into high-value propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. By directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, PDH offers a cleaner, more targeted, and cost-effective production process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical component. It leverages the abundance of propane from shale gas condensates, made possible by hydraulic fracturing, ensuring a plentiful and cost-effective feedstock. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without byproducts, enhances efficiency and selectivity, crucial for addressing the forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging enhanced hydraulic fracturing (Quote 2) to lower gas costs (Quote 3) and utilize shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price (Quote 5). PDH's profitability, influenced by propane and propylene price differential, benefits from current market conditions. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins with polymer-quality purity (Quote 7), offering an advantage over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, offering feedstock advantages. CoSiBeta catalysts in PDH enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, the need for a green, affordable PDH catalyst highlights PDH's potential to address product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for superior efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity for premium product quality, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration in recycling reactions. The catalyst's tuned active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, overcoming conventional methods' limitations in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity and leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane as a raw material. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a promising choice for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. It exploits abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's focus on a single product and lower production costs make it a competitive alternative, capable of meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It offers high activity and yields, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, PDH remains a viable method due to its high propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by improving process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired side reactions, thus avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods by providing a petroleum-independent route. However, high-temperature requirements for catalytic activity promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. This highlights the need for catalysts with enhanced selectivity and stability under severe conditions, a critical challenge for industrial propylene production, as noted in quote [6].", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking methods (Quote [1]), and its importance in propylene production is increasing with new plant constructions (Quote [2]). However, conventional PDH catalysts have health risks and deactivation issues (Quotes [3]-[5]). Re-dispersing platinum catalysts with chlorine compounds is also a concern (Quote [6]). Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation (Quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is hailed for its efficiency in meeting high global propylene demand, excelling in product selectivity and addressing conventional production challenges, notably feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a leading solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources for cost-effective feedstock, boasting high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene. Its modular design offers flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for high activity and selectivity, enhance PDH's efficiency, making it a superior alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient supply without relying on depleting petroleum resources, offering improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's stability and reducing reliance on naphtha. Its high efficiency and selectivity streamline propane-to-propylene conversion with minimal byproducts and lower energy use. Modular plant design enables flexible, localized production, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, focusing on high-performance catalysts, is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, crucial for the endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing feedstock sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, and unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2), which risks overoxidation, PDH maintains high selectivity. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high selectivity and activity, while CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, efficiently addresses the propylene supply-demand gap. It offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, being eco-friendly and cost-efficient, thus outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a non-petroleum route for propylene production, addressing global demand. Zinc, as a non-toxic and earth-abundant alternative, shows promise, with Zn-4@S-1 achieving a propylene STY of 24 and 97% selectivity at 853 K, highlighting PDH's efficiency and selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, offering a more efficient and selective process than conventional methods. It utilizes cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts without non-noble metals, enhancing performance and ensuring high propene yields and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as evidenced by industrial testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock, ensuring a stable and cost-effective propane supply. Its direct transformation from propane to propylene is more efficient and addresses the energy consumption and demand-supply gap issues of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane, abundant from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it sustainable and cost-effective, especially utilizing shale gas. PDH potentially yields higher propylene selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently addresses the escalating demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and reduced CO2/NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. It ensures better feedstock availability, sourcing propane from natural gas, unlike oil-dependent naphtha and crude oil. PDH's high product selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, makes it an attractive alternative, directly converting propane to propylene, aligning with the need for more benign and sustainable processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with conventional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. By employing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, effectively reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, enhances propylene production by improving process efficiency and product selectivity with vanadium oxide catalysts. This offers better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional methods, making PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. With a 2020 demand of 116 million tons, propylene is crucial for industrial applications. PDH, over alternatives like MTP and WGSR, is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages, making it ideal for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing boost propane conversion, highlighting PDH's role in utilizing this abundant resource.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, offers a more direct and efficient process for propylene production, potentially reducing costs. Its key advantage lies in enhanced product selectivity and process efficiency, further improved by the development of a highly active, selective, and durable PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It boasts enhanced catalytic performance and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH notably increase propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly tackling limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the rising global demand for propylene, offering improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. Despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity, PDH remains a promising solution, as highlighted by industry insights.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high temperatures for propane conversion, leverages abundant shale gas resources for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. The technology's reliance on stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion highlights its process efficiency, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a direct and efficient method for propylene production, addressing growing global demand. It offers onstream stability and high selectivity, surpassing steam cracking's limitations, making it a promising alternative for propene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and fewer by-products, directly tackling the constraints of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its efficiency and selectivity in producing propylene, a vital chemical precursor, make PDH a promising solution amidst growing global demand and concerns over fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology emerges as a viable solution. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods using toxic Cr or costly Pt catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a promising alternative, leveraging Co's earth abundance for long-term industry growth.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing global demand challenges. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering higher efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane as feedstocks, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, easily integrating into existing facilities, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. It's more sustainable and economically viable than traditional methods, boasting higher propylene yields and reduced byproduct formation, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high temperatures causing cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing global demand more efficiently than conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness and stability, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, directly targeting propylene without byproducts, overcoming conventional methods' fossil fuel reliance, high CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Enhanced by fracking, which provides cheap propane feedstocks, PDH's adaptable factories boost profitability, aligning with the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas to ensure feedstock availability, a critical advantage in meeting global propylene demand. Its use of efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to the challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature is optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results despite high energy consumption. PDH's single-pass conversion of propane reduces costs, enhancing efficiency by increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically overcomes conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, thus improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. PDH's process efficiency is highlighted by its thermodynamic properties, making it a more viable option. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene than conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from diverse sources, enhancing environmental friendliness and directness. PDH's higher selectivity results in increased yields and reduced production costs, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, enhancing feedstock flexibility. It operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, improving efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes enable high propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproduct formation, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use distinct catalysts, with Catofin's atmospheric pressure operation enhancing energy efficiency. Catalyst deactivation and stability are ongoing challenges. PDH surpasses oxidative dehydrogenation by avoiding deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, notably those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These catalysts offer high stability and selectivity, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, including Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, is emerging as a promising solution. Challenges like the high cost of Pt and environmental issues with Cr highlight the need for PDH's advancement, focusing on developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts. This addresses limitations in conventional methods, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propylene, unlike conventional methods that rely on limited feedstocks. It's more energy-efficient, has higher propylene selectivity, and simplifies the process in a single reactor, reducing costs. This makes PDH particularly viable in regions with ample propane supply, addressing global demand sustainably and cost-effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock. This method offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH's targeted conversion process results in cleaner production, meeting demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, offers enhanced selectivity by exclusively yielding propylene. Hydraulic fracturing increases propane availability, making feedstock more economical. With a forecasted 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a solution, tackling conventional production issues. Enhanced fracking boosts shale gas extraction, slashing gas costs and favoring its use as feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability, which hinges on the propane-propylene price gap. PDH selectively yields high-purity olefins, unlike mixed-product conventional methods, addressing product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, enhancing feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst boosts catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Highlighting the need for a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, PDH directly tackles product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock. It inhibits overoxidation, outperforming ODH in efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The active Co species and surface acid property offer anti-coke stability, underscoring PDH's superiority over conventional methods in tackling feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from advanced gas extraction. This makes PDH superior for meeting escalating global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene. It leverages abundant raw materials from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and single-product focus make it a competitive choice, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand, as highlighted by its advantages such as single feed, single product, wide source of raw materials, and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, tackling challenges of conventional methods. Despite its endothermic nature and high-temperature requirement, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause issues like coking, nanostructured catalysts enhance process efficiency and product selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing propane as a feedstock, improving efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the growing global demand and depletion of petroleum resources. It's the most economical and commercially viable method, offering a direct route for propylene production. However, the process's high-temperature requirement promotes side reactions, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst instability, presenting significant challenges for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental advantages over oil-based methods by using cleaner natural/shale gas, and its role in propylene production is expanding. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is lauded for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, excels in process efficiency and selectivity for propylene, and offers modular implementation for flexible capacity and reduced capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative for propylene production, overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane and the price disparity between propane and propylene. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures propylene supply without depending on dwindling oil reserves, effectively addressing the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane to reduce reliance on costly naphtha. It boasts superior efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more economically and environmentally sound choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting escalating global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods. Its endothermic reaction requires high-performance catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, critical for achieving high propylene yields at high temperatures, thus addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving process efficiency. PDH outperforms steam cracking and MTO in atom economy, toxicity, and sustainability, making it a more environmentally friendly and economically viable option. The use of renewable feedstocks in PDH aligns with the growing demand for sustainable chemical production methods. With further research and development, PDH has the potential to transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate, propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology bridges the propylene supply-demand gap, leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas. It excels in high propylene selectivity, yielding valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly, cost-efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a significant route for propylene production, addressing global demand. Its adaptability is showcased by the development of alternative catalysts like Zn@S-1, which exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity (97% at 853 K), and regeneration capability, making it promising for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, using eco-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. It achieves about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, showcasing its superiority over conventional methods in feedstock efficiency, process, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, boasting environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, matching selectivity under industrial conditions, underscoring PDH's superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, addressing their limitations in process efficiency and product selectivity. The non-oxidative PDH route is an emerging solution, specifically tackling the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially when using shale gas. PDH potentially yields more propylene than traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology is advantageous due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, enhanced energy efficiency, and lower CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. PDH improves feedstock availability by utilizing propane from natural gas and offers higher product selectivity for propylene with fewer byproducts, making it a sustainable solution for meeting the growing need for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining traditional naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. It utilizes a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability. This significantly reduces coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, reduces dependence on oil-based sources. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants. These advancements enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2020 global propylene demand of 116 million tons, PDH technology stands out as the most promising production method. It optimizes feedstock use, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering cost-effective and environmentally sound production. PDH is the preferred pathway for high-value propylene, bolstered by advancements in shale gas extraction, which enhance propane conversion. [4] [5]", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves for feedstock. It directly produces propylene, addressing growing demand with better availability, higher efficiency, and improved selectivity over traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH's benefits include lower costs from shale gas use, a more direct process, and selective catalyst development, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental impact. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by overcoming limitations of conventional methods, notably the short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity issues with Pt-based catalysts, highlighting its promise in efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses feedstock availability challenges. Its high-temperature process, crucial for propane conversion, employs platinum-based catalysts, which, despite deactivation risks, are essential. Efforts to improve process efficiency through anti-sintering catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion highlight PDH's advantages. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas for propylene production makes it a promising method to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high onstream stability and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing limitations of current technologies like high costs and toxicity. This makes PDH a promising route for efficient and selective propylene production, meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products, making it a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand, unlike conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with fossil energy consumption and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Conventional methods face challenges due to toxicity and high costs, prompting the exploration of cobalt-based catalysts. Cobalt's earth abundance ensures long-term sustainability for PDH, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane and butane, enhancing process efficiency and selectivity. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities minimizes investment, making it a superior solution to meet rising global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It ensures stable supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it sustainable and economically viable. PDH's energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity streamline production, reducing oil-based feedstock dependency and enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas abundance, addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high temperatures leading to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, addressing global demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ni-modified ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, key to PDH's superiority over traditional Pt and Cr-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and less selective for propylene. The advent of fracking technology has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, abundantly available and affordable. PDH plants' flexibility and the growing propylene market's profitability, driven by the price gap between propylene and propane, make PDH a compelling solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, addressing feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 exemplify high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite being endothermic and limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures can improve conversion, aligning with equilibrium conversion trends. Suitable conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring feedstock availability and high conversion rates for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce propylene efficiently and selectively. It operates under milder conditions, yielding high propylene volumes with reduced byproducts, directly converting propane to propylene. This process improves efficiency and may lower greenhouse gas emissions, addressing global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas production, providing simpler reactant and product distribution, requiring less investment, and integrating easily with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges remain, particularly with catalyst deactivation, but efforts are being made to improve stability. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at atmospheric pressure. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and thermodynamically stable by-products, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, highlights its advantages over conventional methods. PDH, particularly with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of traditional processes. Ongoing research into a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, aims to further enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have led to interest in PDH for propylene production. PDH processes, notably Oleflex and Catofin, address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of precious metals and environmental concerns limit PDH's development, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene, which tackles feedstock availability issues. It offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods, with a simplified single-reactor process that reduces costs. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, particularly in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, addressing the growing global demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, offers key advantages over conventional methods. It exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity and addressing limitations of hybrid product generation. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock plentiful and cost-effective, a critical factor in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, forecasted to increase by 2% to 3% annually by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The move from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, driving up prices and highlighting PDH's potential. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently favorable. PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed-product conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Developing a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst aims to further enhance selectivity and reduce environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration in recycling PDH reactions, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges. Enhanced by abundant, lower-cost propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is cost-effective and efficient, meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifies the process and leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources for a steady, cost-effective supply. It offers lower production costs and higher efficiency than traditional methods, addressing the challenges of meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers high yields but faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that limit selectivity and cause coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by tuning properties that affect propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the decline in fossil oil resources and growing market demand. It bypasses hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity by directly converting propane to propene, utilizing an abundant and cheaper feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propane-to-propylene converter, is economically advantageous and addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering an alternative to conventional methods that rely on scarce petroleum resources. As the most economical and shortest production route, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, ensuring high selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production. Its role is expanding with new plants under construction. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation, requiring environmentally harmful Cl2 treatment for re-dispersion. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, for high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Recognized as the most efficient process, PDH ensures product selectivity, addressing challenges posed by the disruption of ethylene availability from natural gas and shale gas, making it a key player in the propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high propane-to-propylene conversion rates, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance activity, selectivity, and regeneration, making PDH a cost-effective, efficient alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price disparity between propane and propylene. This method ensures sufficient propylene supply, overcoming the limitations of conventional production reliant on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, reducing reliance on expensive naphtha. Its single-step conversion to propylene boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure. PDH's cost-effective and sustainable approach, with high yields, makes it a prime solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand due to its high-temperature operation, essential for high yields in endothermic reactions. Developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for PDH addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing active Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, which avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, effectively limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation, prioritizing abundant elements. Research on lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing sustainably, aligning with green chemistry principles and offering a viable solution to the propene gap.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and hydrogen as a by-product, effectively addressing the global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts like Zn@S-1, offers an alternative to petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing global demand. Zn@S-1 demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K. This highlights PDH's advantages over conventional methods in feedstock flexibility, efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability with cost-efficient, eco-friendly catalysts. At 600C, PDH catalysts exhibit remarkable efficiency and selectivity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a greener propylene production method, avoiding toxic compounds and ecologically harmful substances. A novel ZnO-based catalyst boosts PDH's environmental compatibility, showcasing triple the propene productivity at comparable selectivity versus a standard KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process is more efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the supply-demand gap. PDH's non-oxidative route makes it an emerging, efficient technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha used in traditional methods. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, maximizing shale gas resources. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene make it a superior choice over conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, converting propane to propylene efficiently. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by offering an alternative route that doesn't rely on traditional, feedstock-dependent methods, which may have lower efficiency and selectivity. This makes PDH a viable option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering enhanced efficiency, environmental benefits, and better feedstock availability. By directly converting abundant propane from natural gas to propylene, PDH reduces oil dependency, energy consumption, and CO2/NOx emissions. This direct process boosts product selectivity and minimizes byproducts, making PDH a top choice for meeting the escalating demand for propylene, a vital raw material for numerous downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly propylene production method, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for feedstock, reduces oil dependence and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity over conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the soaring global demand for propylene, which reached 116 million tons in 2020. It outshines conventional methods due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced PDH's efficiency by boosting propane conversion from shale gas, addressing feedstock availability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, offers a direct process for propylene production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. It promises lower costs and addresses feedstock availability issues. Developing a superior catalyst could further boost process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, offering benefits in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It achieves efficient CH bond activation, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental advantages. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, as highlighted by their unsatisfactory performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing demand for propylene through its endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion. It faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for improved Pt-based catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion. PDH's compatibility with shale gas exploration underscores its advantage in feedstock availability, making it a promising method for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This improves process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing limitations like high costs and toxicity of other catalysts, making PDH suitable for meeting growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet demand and lack efficiency. PDH's ability to produce propylene with these advantages is gaining attention.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas-derived propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Traditional processes using problematic catalysts like Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 face challenges due to toxicity and cost, prompting a shift. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, offer a promising pathway for PDH, enhancing long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers superior resource use and reduced environmental impact, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane and butane, improves propylene selectivity and process efficiency, easily integrating into existing facilities, making it a promising solution to meet rising global propylene demand and overcome conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges. It ensures stable supply, reduces energy use, and minimizes byproducts, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock, thanks to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's high energy intensity and temperatures pose challenges for selectivity and catalyst stability, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation. The strategy of isolating active sites effectively combats these issues, optimizing PDH's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, meets global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, boosted by Ni, enhance catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising industrial raw material production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the propylene-propane price difference and growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, significantly improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized conditions and catalysts despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited. As a high energy-consuming process, PDH benefits from increased propane conversion, which reduces costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, thus meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods like SC and FCC. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways such as MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits. PDH specifically addresses limitations in feedstock availability and efficiency faced by conventional methods by utilizing abundant alkanes in shale gas, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene than conventional methods, resulting in increased yields and reduced costs. By utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and petrochemical processes, PDH directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, offers high propylene yields at milder conditions than steam cracking. Its Pt-based catalysts ensure high selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and reducing energy needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It simplifies reactant and product distribution, reduces investment, and integrates smoothly with existing technology. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. The process avoids deep oxidation and COx production, increasing selectivity for propylene. Challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, highlighting areas for ongoing research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, such as Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing research into catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to further improve PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology has emerged as a promising method for production. Two main processes exist, but the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in their catalysts limit PDH's development, underscoring the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives as a critical challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and stable propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. By targeting propane conversion, PDH achieves higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant shale gas-derived propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It offers a cleaner, more targeted process by directly converting propane with minimal by-products, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH's sustainability and cost-effectiveness in shale gas-rich regions make it a superior alternative to conventional naphtha or oil cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for direct propylene production, offers enhanced selectivity and efficiency, specifically addressing conventional production challenges. It leverages abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. PDH's exclusive propylene output and optimized process conditions inhibit side reactions, improving selectivity and productivity. As propylene demand is projected to grow at 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's advantages are crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, except in the Eurozone due to economic downturns, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, is profitable under current market conditions. Its on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, not a mix, and processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity, addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently upgrades abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. This catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and fast deactivation, PDH offers advantages in product selectivity and environmental considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing global demand challenges for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Its enhanced performance and anti-coke stability make it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, overcoming conventional methods' limitations. The shale gas and natural gas hydrate boom has made propane abundant and cost-effective, making PDH a superior choice to meet rising global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the single product. Its efficiency, bolstered by abundant raw materials from unconventional gas, ensures cost-effectiveness and a steady supply, surpassing traditional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. As an endothermic process, PDH operates at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene, addressing challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It directly converts propane with high selectivity, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, thus enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods that face challenges with feedstock availability and process efficiency. As a direct conversion from propane, PDH is less dependent on dwindling petroleum resources. However, the process's high temperatures can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Enhancing catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its contribution to propylene production is growing with new plants under construction. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and deactivation. Recently, eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, have been developed for improved activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH effectively addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, particularly in the context of disrupted ethylene and propylene production balance due to natural gas and shale gas. As an on-purpose method, PDH is efficient in propylene production, directly addressing current demand and feedstock issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production with a high conversion rate and minimized by-products. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts are emerging for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for non-noble metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, making it an effective alternative to depleting petroleum resources. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, meeting market needs sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing feedstock stability compared to naphtha. It boasts superior efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. Its superiority is underscored by the development of advanced catalysts, boasting high activity, stability, and selectivity, essential for achieving high yields at high temperatures in the propane dehydrogenation process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high spacetime yield, achieved through Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and the use of renewable green propane, addressing sustainability. Unlike DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, utilizing boron catalysts, shows promise with high selectivity but faces overoxidation challenges. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and focus on CO2 activation at lower temperatures. Research and development of PDH using green propane could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing global demand efficiently and eco-friendly, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Zinc, abundant and non-toxic, offers a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate high dehydrogenation activity and 97% propylene selectivity, showcasing PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Notably, catalysts without non-noble metals achieve a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional catalyst regeneration. The ZnO-based catalyst in PDH technology demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing the energy consumption and demand-supply gaps of conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in the propylene production sector.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a more abundant and stable feedstock than naphtha. This method enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it sustainable and cost-effective, especially when utilizing propane from shale gas. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an advantageous alternative to traditional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by using abundant propane as feedstock, unlike scarce naphtha and crude oil. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it a sustainable and attractive alternative that improves feedstock availability and reduces environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. It boasts high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably minimizing coke formation and sintering, issues that typically lead to catalyst deactivation in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources for propylene production, reducing dependence on oil-based feedstocks. Utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, PDH offers superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These catalysts also ensure competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, underscoring PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, highlights the advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. PDH, noted for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, stands out among methods like MTP and WGSR for producing high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced PDH's appeal by facilitating the conversion of abundant low-valued propane from shale gas, addressing the 116 million tons demand in 2020.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology as a promising solution, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock for enhanced efficiency and selectivity. PDH directly produces propylene, potentially lowering costs and simplifying the process, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity, offers environmental benefits and enhanced propylene selectivity through Pt-based catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, tackling the limitations of conventional methods, particularly the catalyst limitations highlighted by the poor performance of Pt-based catalysts in terms of stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process using platinum-based catalysts, addresses propylene production challenges by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas exploration. Despite catalyst deactivation from coke deposition, the desire for anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts highlights efforts to improve process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, boasts enhanced efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution for propene production where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. This innovation addresses high costs and toxicity issues, underscoring PDH's superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is prominent and advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with escalating global demand for propylene, a vital chemical component.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as toxicity and high costs, by leveraging Co's earth abundance, enhancing PDH's potential in efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene with high selectivity, unlike energy-intensive conventional methods. It offers greater efficiency and a reduced environmental footprint, making it ideal for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane as feedstocks, addresses availability issues and can be easily retrofitted into existing facilities, minimizing investment. Its higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency make it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and minimized byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a key solution for propylene production, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It addresses conventional method limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures, which can cause cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced in Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, efficiently and selectively produces propene under mild conditions, addressing conventional method limitations by ensuring feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity, making it pivotal for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas, making it highly profitable given the price disparity between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas from hydraulic fracturing, ensures feedstock availability for propylene production. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 in PDH processes exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, enhancing efficiency and yield, thus addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. Increasing propane conversion for a single pass is complex but reduces costs. PDH's use of propane ensures feedstock availability and high conversion rates, addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial supplement to traditional propylene production methods, addressing growing global demand for olefins. It leverages abundant shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity, combined with PDH's thermodynamic properties, provides process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. PDH's ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for enhanced product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, operating under milder conditions than steam cracking to yield high propylene output with reduced byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion in PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially decreases greenhouse gas emissions, offering superior product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. The surge in natural gas and shale gas production provides a steady supply of propane, a critical feedstock for PDH. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Challenges, such as catalyst deactivation and stability, are being addressed through ongoing research. Commercial PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, employ distinct catalysts and pressures, underscoring PDH's superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods by enhancing efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for efficient propylene production. PDH optimizes feedstock utilization, addressing conventional method limitations. However, the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a development challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers advantages over conventional methods by relying on more abundant feedstock. It's more energy-efficient, has higher propylene selectivity, and simplifies the process, making it cost-effective. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields, addressing the growing global demand for propylene sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, converting abundant shale gas propane directly into propylene with high efficiency. It offers higher propane conversion and propylene selectivity, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, making it a cleaner and more targeted process compared to conventional methods. This technology is particularly advantageous in regions rich in shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a forecasted 2-3% annual increase in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology stands out as a solution, directly producing propylene without byproducts. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, PDH utilizes abundant shale gas condensates, improving efficiency and selectivity. This proprietary method, producing only propylene, is poised to meet growing demand with high selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, except in the Eurozone, and cost-effective shale gas extraction have shifted U.S. feedstock preference from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price. PDH technology, profitable due to the propane-propylene price difference, offers exclusive polymer-quality olefins, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its catalysts, like CoSiBeta, offer high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH uses green, cost-effective catalysts to maintain high reactivity and selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, tackling product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Its active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH more efficient in utilizing feedstocks than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production. Leveraging abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods, meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    