Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, offers enhanced efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting the growing demand for propylene. PDH's advantages include a single product focus, wide availability of raw materials, and lower costs, making it a competitive solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, excels in propylene production with high activity and yields. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its economic competitiveness, directly converting abundant and low-cost propane into propene with high selectivity. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by improving process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or decreased catalyst activity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical method for propylene production, addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative amid dwindling petroleum resources. Propylene, a vital petrochemical for various products, sees increasing demand, necessitating alternative production technologies. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas over oil-based methods. Its importance increases with new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and Pt deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NP, have been developed, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it ideal for large-scale production. The shift towards ethane cracking disrupted the balance in industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, necessitating on-purpose methods. PDH stands out for its process efficiency and selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, excelling with a high propane-to-propylene conversion rate and reduced by-product formation. Its modular implementation ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity and selectivity for propylene, enhance PDH's efficiency, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, using abundant propane and leveraging the price differential between propane and propylene. PDH overcomes traditional methods' limitations, like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting oil resources. This method ensures a steady propylene supply, independent of dwindling oil reserves, making it a critical advancement for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers superior efficiency and selectivity by converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. PDH boasts high yields and lower operating costs, making it an economically and environmentally superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, efficiently addresses the growing global demand for propylene. By facilitating the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction at high temperatures, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane to mitigate coke formation. ODH-O2, utilizing boron catalysts, avoids coke buildup but faces the challenge of overoxidation, limiting propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, exhibits lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should concentrate on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and boosting CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, with a focus on low temperature CO2 activation and the use of more abundant catalytic elements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global propylene demand and outshining conventional methods in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, overcomes conventional propylene production limitations. Zinc, as an alternative, non-toxic, and abundant metal, shows promise, particularly in Zn@S-1 catalysts, which exhibit high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, underscoring PDH's efficiency and selectivity in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability. It employs cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, the encapsulation of nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer ensures high PDH performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, directly addressing the question's focus on PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand while providing environmental benefits. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH technology demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its superiority over conventional methods by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient than conventional methods, addressing their energy-intensive nature. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it an advantageous technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable, cost-effective alternative to naphtha. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, especially when utilizing shale gas resources, making it a promising solution for higher propylene yields compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers a promising solution to meet global propylene demand by addressing feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity, thus providing an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas, excels in energy efficiency and environmental friendliness, with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions. It ensures higher selectivity for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods, and sustainably meets the growing global demand for this key chemical raw material used in various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, mitigating issues of coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, reducing oil-based feedstock dependence. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH processes achieve superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, offering competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a soaring global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers superior cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over conventional techniques, as highlighted by Quote 4. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing, as mentioned in Quote 5, have further strengthened PDH's position by enabling the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene through the extraction of abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers a superior solution for propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly produces propylene, potentially lowering costs, and the development of a selective and durable catalyst is key to maximizing its benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation and reactive longevity are efficient, and the use of Pt-based catalysts notably enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making PDH an environmentally superior choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in meeting global propylene demand, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, indicating areas for technological advancement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas resources to tackle feedstock availability issues. Its use of stable, anti-sintering catalysts boosts efficiency, making it a superior solution to meet escalating global propylene demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering a more direct and efficient route than steam cracking. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH ensure good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an advantageous method to meet growing global demand for propylene, especially when conventional methods struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, offering higher efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using earth-abundant cobalt catalysts, offers a viable solution to meet rising global propylene demand. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, which rely on toxic Cr and costly Pt catalysts, ensuring long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior selectivity and efficiency in converting propane directly to propylene. It outperforms conventional methods by being more resource-friendly and environmentally sustainable, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, boosts efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution for global propylene demand. By utilizing existing facilities, it minimizes investment, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers superior efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with higher yields and fewer byproducts. This sustainable and economically viable method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to traditional steam cracking for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy needs and risks of cracking, the active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and stabilizes catalysts, tackling key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates and selectivity. It overcomes conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, offer cost-effective, nontoxic alternatives, boosting catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity and efficiency, unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-reliant with lower propylene selectivity. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the low cost of propane-rich shale gas, a byproduct of fracking technology. The widening gap between propylene and propane prices, coupled with the escalating demand for propylene, underscores PDH's economic viability and adaptability, solidifying its position as a leading method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, overcomes feedstock availability issues. Its ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing efficiency and yield, thus addressing limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Despite thermodynamic constraints, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal conversion. PDH's energy-intensive nature is offset by strategies to enhance single-pass propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, tackling conventional method limitations. This process leverages abundant propane feedstock, achieving high propylene yield with minimal by-products, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. It leverages abundant shale gas resources, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over alternative pathways like methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a key method for propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity and yields, which reduces costs and environmental impact, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with lower energy consumption and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas for a steady feedstock. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easy integration with existing technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production by operating without oxidants. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specific catalysts but face challenges with deactivation and stability. Despite this, PDH remains a more efficient and selective process, addressing the key challenges of propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies are gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by global demand and affordable propane from shale gas. Research on catalysts, notably indium-based ones, enhances PDH's stability and selectivity, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, is a promising solution, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing challenges posed by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propylene without steam cracking. It excels in higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant shale gas propane into propylene, offering a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner process with higher efficiency and selectivity. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous in shale gas-rich regions and effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in addressing the escalating global demand for propylene. It boasts enhanced product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene, and benefits from abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2-3% annually by 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial in meeting this demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a solution to meet rising global propylene demand, leveraging advancements in fracking to reduce gas costs and utilize shale gas as a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH, benefiting from the current price gap between propane and propylene, produces high-purity olefins, making it a favorable choice that specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers enhanced availability and efficiency over conventional methods. The CoSiBeta catalyst boosts process selectivity and efficiency, addressing limitations of high-cost and environmentally problematic alternatives. PDH's focus on a green, cost-effective catalyst highlights its commitment to environmental challenges and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently inhibits overoxidation, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. Shale gas extraction ensures a plentiful propane supply, PDH avoids overoxidation issues, and its superior selectivity for propylene sets it apart as a proprietary technology designed for high yield.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high efficiency and selectivity, directly tackling the high energy consumption and low selectivity issues of conventional methods. By utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane, a byproduct of advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a superior solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene exclusively, offers enhanced efficiency and addresses the limitations of traditional methods. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective supply of raw materials. PDH's simplified process and lower production costs make it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses the growing demand for propylene by overcoming conventional method limitations. Despite its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures, which can affect efficiency and selectivity, nanostructured catalysts enhance these aspects, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges by utilizing propane, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, and avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for the escalating global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can cause side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Despite these challenges, PDH remains the most viable route for propylene production, as it is commercially available and developed by major licensing processes.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cleaner approach to propylene production, leveraging natural/shale gas over oil-based feedstock, and its role expands with new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, however, present health risks and deactivation issues. Recent advancements have led to eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, for efficient propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a leading solution, recognized for its efficiency and selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, becoming a cornerstone in propylene production, as conventional naphtha crackers are overshadowed by ethylene from natural gas, necessitating dedicated propylene methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for propylene production, boasting high conversion rates and selectivity that minimize by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Utilizing vanadium-based catalysts, PDH offers high efficiency and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant propane, capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. This method overcomes the shortfall in propylene supply due to petroleum depletion, ensuring sufficient production for high-valued chemical synthesis, unlike traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for propylene production, offering single-step conversion with high efficiency and selectivity, minimal byproducts, and lower energy consumption compared to conventional multi-step methods. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. High-performance catalysts in PDH operate efficiently at high temperatures, ensuring high yields and adaptability to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active catalysts, typically Pt or Cr based. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by utilizing renewable green propane, which is gaining traction as a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids the coke formation issues seen in non-oxidative processes, while oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) offer additional benefits but face limitations in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activation in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize more abundant catalytic elements and lower energy routes to propene, transforming the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to the propylene supply-demand gap, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing zinc-based Zn@S-1 catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. Demonstrating its potential, PDH catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, addressing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst in PDH technology demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, addressing energy intensity and supply-demand gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging industry standard.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, notably from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It excels in efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs while efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thus addressing challenges faced by conventional methods and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, surpasses conventional propylene production methods by being more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and achieving higher propylene selectivity. Unlike traditional processes that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, making it a sustainable choice with lower energy consumption and fewer emissions. Directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH offers superior product selectivity, addressing the limitations of high energy consumption and increased contaminant emissions in steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional, energy-intensive, and CO2-emitting methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, mitigating issues of coke formation and sintering common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas resources, boosts feedstock availability. It features vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product quality. These advancements lead to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, effectively overcoming challenges in conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a superior production method. PDH excels in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering cost-effective and environmentally sound production of high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, underscoring PDH's role in meeting the growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and efficient solution for propylene production, offering a more direct and selective process than traditional methods. Its high-performance catalyst enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced efficiency, and improved product selectivity. Its efficient CH bond activation ensures environmental friendliness, while Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting escalating global propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, have short-term stability and subpar propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's advantages in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, meets global propylene demand through a high-temperature process. It overcomes catalyst deactivation issues with stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts. PDH's use of shale gas for propylene production highlights its superiority over conventional methods, offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propylene production from propane, addressing conventional method challenges with high selectivity and onstream stability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane feedstock, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional naphtha steam cracking, addressing global demand and production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas to meet growing global propylene demand, offering a sustainable alternative to conventional methods. It addresses limitations like chromium toxicity and high platinum costs through cobalt-based catalysts, supported by cobalt's earth abundance, ensuring long-term industry viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering better resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, offers easy retrofitting into existing facilities, enhancing propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, ensuring stable production and minimizing byproducts. It reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks, enhancing overall efficiency and making it a sustainable, economically viable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to abundant shale and natural gas-derived light alkanes, addresses conventional method challenges, notably feedstock availability. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements leading to selectivity and stability issues, PDH employs active site isolation, effectively tackling these challenges and enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic propylene production method with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. This addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels and have lower propylene yields. By utilizing cheap propane, made possible by fracking technology, PDH becomes highly profitable, especially considering the growing demand for propylene and the favorable price difference between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts, offering high activity, stability, and selectivity for propylene. This enhances process efficiency and product yield, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a recent focus, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2 in an atom-economic reaction, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite thermodynamic limitations, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion. Strategies like temperature increase and pressure adjustments can boost propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock for efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, a unique advantage over methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It effectively addresses the growing global demand by leveraging abundant shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties ensure process efficiency, unlike conventional SC and FCC. Efficient catalysts are crucial, activating the CH bond while suppressing CC cleavage to achieve high olefin selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its higher selectivity to propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, excels in high propylene yields with reduced byproducts, operating under milder conditions than steam cracking. Pt-based catalysts in PDH ensure high propylene selectivity and lower carbon-carbon cleavage activity. Direct propane conversion to propylene boosts efficiency and may cut greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas for a reliable feedstock. It boasts simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with current technology. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, employ specialized catalysts for enhanced efficiency, though catalyst stability remains a challenge. PDH's atmospheric pressure operation boosts energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness, distinguishing it from conventional methods. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. These technologies optimize indium-based catalysts for high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges. Ongoing research explores catalysts to further improve PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "In response to the escalating global demand for propylene and the plentiful propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, presents a viable solution to conventional production constraints. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts in these processes underscore the need for more economical and eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, addresses global demand more efficiently than conventional methods by offering higher selectivity and lower energy consumption in a single-reactor process, which simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures superior feedstock availability over conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner approach effectively meets rising global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in addressing the escalating global demand for propylene, forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035. It excels by exclusively producing propylene, enhancing product selectivity, utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates, and regulating reaction conditions to boost propylene selectivity and productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging cost-effective shale gas extraction to ensure feedstock availability. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and highlighting PDH's profitability, influenced by the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, offering an advantage over conventional methods in product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering superior feedstock availability. It boasts enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, notably due to the high catalytic activity of the CoSiBeta catalyst. PDH specifically tackles conventional method challenges in selectivity and environmental impact, focusing on a green, cost-effective catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, inhibits overoxidation, and offers high propylene selectivity, making it a superior method for meeting global propylene demand by addressing feedstock, efficiency, and product quality challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. This addresses the challenges of product selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity. By leveraging the abundance and lower cost of propane from advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH ensures a reliable and economical route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, offers a competitive edge in meeting the growing demand for propylene. It leverages abundant light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower costs and adaptability to feedstock changes make it superior to traditional naphtha and coal-based methods, which are no longer sufficient to meet market demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields but faces challenges at high temperatures, causing coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts in PDH enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the increasing demand for propene and the decline in fossil oil resources. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane to propene, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical solution for growing propylene demand, offering process efficiency and reduced reliance on dwindling petroleum resources. It's the most commercially viable route for propylene production, as highlighted by industry processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, PDH's high-temperature requirements lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, reinforcing PDH's position as the most promising method.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based methods in propylene production, with its importance growing due to new plant constructions. Conventional catalysts, however, have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenge of feedstock availability, disrupted by the availability of ethylene from ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas, making PDH an on-purpose method for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexibility and reduces capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance PDH's performance, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and the price differential between propane and propylene, directly addresses conventional propylene production challenges, ensuring adequate supply without depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by converting propane directly to propylene in a single step. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, making PDH economically and environmentally advantageous, particularly in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in high-temperature operations for high yields. Its endothermic reaction necessitates high-performance catalysts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, utilizing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally beneficial, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with green propane, can transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently bridges the global propylene demand gap. It boasts high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly, cost-efficient production, with hydrogen as a valuable by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based Zn@S-1 catalysts, excels in propylene production, offering high dehydrogenation activity, selectivity, and regeneration capability. This makes PDH advantageous over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high catalyst activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing conventional method limitations. Utilizing encapsulated nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, effectively tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a sustainable alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand while offering environmental benefits. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a stable, cost-effective propane supply for propylene production. It efficiently converts propane directly to propylene, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior choice for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing diverse propane sources like shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It improves on conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability challenges, converting propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, and minimizing byproducts, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a promising solution to meet global demand. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous over traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a key raw material for products like polypropylene, highlights the need for sustainable production methods. PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly alternative to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH reduces CO2 and NOx emissions and boasts higher propylene selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet growing propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective, eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by reducing coke formation and sintering issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, ensures reduced dependence on oil-based feedstocks. Its vanadium oxide catalysts boast superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and product selectivity. These attributes contribute to PDH's competitive edge, offering lower costs and toxicity, making it a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production (Quote 4). Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, utilizing abundant shale gas to boost propylene output (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently addresses global propylene demand by offering lower costs, enhanced efficiency, and improved selectivity over traditional methods, thanks to a high-performance catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering key advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, promoting environmental friendliness and longer reactive longevity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's potential to meet rising global propylene demand is highlighted by its improved feedstock efficiency, process efficacy, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods, despite catalyst-related challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, enhances propylene production efficiency and selectivity, addressing feedstock availability challenges, making it a promising solution for growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct, efficient, and selective route for propene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods and making it a promising solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages over conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with fossil energy consumption and meeting demand. PDH, with its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addresses these issues, offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution, addressing the limitations of conventional methods hindered by the toxicity of chromium and high cost of platinum. PDH, utilizing earth-abundant cobalt-based catalysts, meets the industry's need for new catalysts, enhancing scalability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steam cracking. This method optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, surpassing conventional production methods in addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cost-effective propane and butane, adapts existing facilities to deliver high propylene selectivity and efficiency, overcoming conventional method constraints amid rising global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers efficient and selective propylene production, ensuring a stable supply and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically viable alternative to conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, boosts propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The active site isolation strategy effectively tackles the energy intensity and selectivity challenges, affirming PDH's potential in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates and selectivity to propene. It features cost-effective, nontoxic zinc-based catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity and lower CO2 emissions, addressing limitations of conventional methods. The fracking boom has made propane feedstocks cost-effective for PDH. PDH plants are adaptable and highly profitable, thanks to the price differential between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, overcomes feedstock availability issues. Advanced ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 significantly enhance catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a recent focus, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2 through an atom-economic reaction. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, PDH can closely achieve ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. This energy-intensive process enhances propane conversion, reducing costs. To increase propane conversion, measures include increasing reaction temperature, reducing hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures, balancing equilibrium conversion with unselective reactions. PDH's use of propane, high conversion rates, and selectivity address conventional production challenges, making it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to traditional methods. It leverages shale gas exploitation for exclusive olefin selectivity, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature offer process efficiency benefits. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially in PDH, due to propylene's lower stability compared to ethylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, efficient approach to propylene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity, yields, and lower costs than conventional methods. It leverages propane from natural gas, refinery off-gases, and petrochemical processes, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, ensures feedstock availability. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with fewer byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH increase propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Its atmospheric pressure operation enhances efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, notably with indium-based catalysts, excels in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene due to its high stability and selectivity. Propane sourced from shale gas offers a cost-effective feedstock, making PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with availability, efficiency, and selectivity issues. Research into catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, signals efforts to further enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for propylene production. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by directly converting propane to propylene, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. It utilizes abundant propane, simplifying the process with a single reactor, making it more sustainable and cost-effective, particularly in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it superior for meeting global propylene demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, directly converts propane to propylene, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity. This method is sustainable and cost-effective, particularly in shale gas-rich regions, and minimizes by-product formation, meeting propylene demand while reducing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035. It excels by utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from hydraulic fracturing as feedstock, directly producing propylene without byproducts. This method enhances process efficiency and selectivity, crucial for inhibiting side reactions and boosting propylene output.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amid growing global propylene demand, offers key advantages: it leverages abundant, cost-effective shale gas due to advanced fracking (Quote 2 & 3), addresses the drop in propylene supply from ethane cracking (Quote 5), benefits from the propane-propylene price differential (Quote 6), and ensures high-purity propylene through its on-purpose technique (Quote 7), making it a superior solution for meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering superior feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity highlight enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods, addressing environmental and economic concerns by being a green and affordable alternative to CrOx and Pt catalysts, which suffer from high costs, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, efficiently curbs overoxidation, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it a prime solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in C3H6 selectivity and regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance performance and anti-coke stability, offering a significant advantage over conventional methods in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in selectivity and surpassing conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene from abundant light alkanes sourced from unconventional gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. Its competitive edge, highlighted by lower production costs and process efficiency, directly addresses challenges faced by traditional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing conventional challenges with high activity and yields. However, its endothermic nature at high temperatures impacts C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing dwindling fossil oil resources and growing demand. Utilizing abundant propane, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, making it a promising solution to the challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct conversion process from propane to propylene, is economically advantageous and addresses the limitations of conventional methods by offering an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available and shortest route for propylene production, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature and high temperature requirements, which facilitate side reactions affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based methods in propylene production, with its role expanding due to new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts have health risks and deactivation issues. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show promise in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting high global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses conventional method challenges, notably improving feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an advantageous choice for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency with superior propane-to-propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH cost-effective, directly addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods by ensuring a sufficient supply without depleting petroleum resources, making it a viable and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, offers flexible feedstock, reducing naphtha reliance. Its single-step conversion boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use, leading to lower costs and higher propylene yields. The modular design enables localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH economically and environmentally advantageous for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic reaction, necessitating high temperatures for optimal yields, highlights the importance of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using renewable green propane, offers high spacetime yields and addresses global propylene demand by avoiding coke formation in non-oxidative DDH and mitigating overoxidation in ODH-O2 with promising boron-based catalysts. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, improving CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, and utilizing abundant elements for low-temperature CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing, aligning with green chemistry principles and sustainable feedstock utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, notably Zn@S-1 for its dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Environmentally friendly, cost-efficient catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity threefold, matching selectivity of conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, highlighting PDH's superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, provides a stable, cost-effective propane feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process and non-oxidative route enhance efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges sustainably and cost-effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting propane to propylene, offers a promising solution to the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to traditional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently meets growing propylene demand. It's eco-friendly, with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and offers high selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. Unlike conventional methods, PDH is sustainable, addressing high energy consumption and contaminant production, crucial for propylene, a key raw material for various products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. It excels in high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing catalyst deactivation compared to conventional methods, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, reduces oil dependency and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. This enhances efficiency and selectivity, offering competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, effectively addressing challenges in conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2020 global demand for 116 million tons of propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a cost-effective and environmentally sound pathway for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, which boosts the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, PDH's appeal is further strengthened, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a promising alternative for propylene production. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and improved process efficiency and product selectivity over traditional methods. Developing an active, selective, and durable catalyst is key to further enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its environmental benefits and the use of Pt-based catalysts for improved propylene selectivity and catalytic stability address the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, despite Pt-based catalyst limitations, is a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a high-temperature process, leverages abundant shale gas resources, enhancing feedstock availability for propylene production. Its requirement for stable, anti-sintering catalysts underscores its focus on process efficiency and product selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. Despite coke deposition, PDH's conversion of shale gas to propylene makes it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. These catalysts offer high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing the high cost and toxicity issues of conventional catalysts, making PDH a more efficient and selective alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging plentiful propane feedstock and enhancing efficiency and selectivity. As global propylene demand rises, PDH emerges as a superior alternative to conventional methods, effectively tackling their limitations in feedstock, process, and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale-gas reserves, is a viable solution for growing propylene demand. It uses Co-based catalysts, overcoming limitations of toxic and costly Cr and Pt-based catalysts in conventional methods. Co's earth abundance ensures long-term sustainability for the propylene industry, making PDH a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting propane directly to propylene with high selectivity, offering superior resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to conventional methods. Its energy-efficient process and higher yields make PDH a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane, easily integrating into current facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high propylene production efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and minimizing byproducts. It outperforms traditional oil-based methods with superior energy efficiency and economic viability, making it a sustainable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. Despite high energy demands and reaction temperatures that challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, solidifying PDH's position as a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets rising propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, optimize PDH's activity and stability, addressing limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and efficiency, unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-intensive and less selective. By utilizing affordable propane from shale gas, PDH ensures a plentiful feedstock supply. Its adaptable factories add operational flexibility, and the technology's profitability is enhanced by the growing propylene market and the favorable price gap between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas and a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, excels in efficiency, stability, and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand by improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing the growing global demand for propylene. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal performance, maximizing propane conversion and reducing costs. Despite high energy consumption, maximizing conversion reduces equipment investment and operation costs. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion with unselective thermal reactions, ensuring commercial viability and facilitating catalyst development. Utilizing widely available propane, PDH achieves high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature enhance process efficiency, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. This makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene, specifically by improving selectivity and efficiency over conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher propene selectivity, which leads to higher yields and lower costs. This makes PDH an attractive catalytic route that specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it promising for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from sources like shale gas, efficiently produces high-yield propylene with minimal byproducts, outperforming conventional steam cracking in selectivity and efficiency. Its lower operation temperatures and pressures significantly cut energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, directly addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offering a steady and economical feedstock. It boasts simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with current technology. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates efficiently at atmospheric pressure. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but ongoing efforts aim to enhance stability. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production, as highlighted in quote [6].", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are favored for propylene production due to the global demand and cost-effectiveness of shale gas-derived propane. Indium-based catalysts in PDH offer high stability and selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. Research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, boosts PDH's efficiency, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its reliance on abundant propane reserves in shale gas. A critical area for PDH's development is the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, as current processes face challenges with the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock limitations. It's more energy-efficient, with higher propylene selectivity, and simplifies the process to a single reactor, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, leverages abundant shale gas, enhancing sustainability and cost-effectiveness. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amid a 2-3% annual rise in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution. PDH's exclusive propylene production enhances selectivity, while hydraulic fracturing ensures a plentiful and cost-effective propane supply. This method optimizes efficiency and selectivity, outperforming conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amid growing global propylene demand, excels by addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, hiking prices and bolstering PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is tied to the propane-propylene price gap, currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation yields pure propylene, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers superior catalytic activity and selectivity through its CoSiBeta catalyst, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, efficiently prevents overoxidation, and offers superior propylene selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock, process efficiency, and product quality, making it a promising solution for growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, effectively addressing conventional methods' challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective solution for meeting rising global propylene demand, offering high selectivity and efficiency. Advancements in propane extraction have made it abundant and cheaper, making PDH a promising route for propylene production that overcomes limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently meets growing propylene demand more cost-effectively than traditional methods. Unconventional gas sources, rich in light alkanes, ensure a steady, affordable supply, making PDH a competitive choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges by enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts optimize properties, improving propylene yield and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically advantageous for propylene production, converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency, addressing the growing demand for propene without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking or coke formation that affect catalyst activity in other processes. By utilizing propane directly, PDH bypasses intermediate steps, reducing undesired side reactions and making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct, economical, and commercially viable route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. Propylene, a key petrochemical, is produced through PDH processes like Catofin and Oleflex, which are available for industrial use. Despite challenges with side reactions and catalyst stability at high temperatures, PDH remains a promising solution for enhancing propylene selectivity and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits and process efficiency for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Its growing importance is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have health risks and high costs. Recent advancements in eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes, overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its recognized efficiency and selectivity make it the most efficient process to meet the large demand, particularly in light of disruptions caused by ethylene availability from natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology utilizes abundant shale gas, achieving high conversion efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is cost-effective and efficient, further improved by vanadium-based catalysts, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by leveraging abundant propane and the significant price advantage over propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production, tackling feedstock scarcity, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, offering superior efficiency, selectivity, and yields over conventional methods. Its modular plants ensure flexible production and reduced reliance on costly naphtha, providing a stable supply, lower energy consumption, and minimal byproducts, making PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method than traditional steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting escalating global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods. By leveraging high-temperature conditions for optimal yields, due to the endothermic nature of the reaction, PDH ensures efficient propene production. Developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity is crucial for PDH, guaranteeing selective propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, excels with high spacetime yield and overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids coke formation, necessitating regeneration. It can utilize renewable green propane, a sustainable feedstock. ODH-O2, employing boron-based catalysts, shows promise for improved selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and utilizing more abundant elements. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is crucial. PDH, with further development, can transform the manufacturing landscape of propylene, a key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to the growing global demand for propylene. It boasts high selectivity for propylene production with hydrogen as a by-product, efficiently addressing the supply-demand gap compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zinc, an abundant and non-toxic alternative, is highlighted through the Zn@S-1 catalyst, which exhibits high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and notable regeneration capability, making PDH a viable industrial option for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its innovative catalyst design featuring nanoparticles encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability. This design achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness without relying on non-noble metals, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a critical alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering environmental benefits and enhanced productivity. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts under industrial conditions, directly tackling the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas for propane feedstock, offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity in propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene, aligning better with demand-supply dynamics and consuming less energy than conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, excels in process efficiency and product selectivity for propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice. PDH efficiently utilizes shale gas resources and selectively activates CH bonds for higher propylene yields, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane feedstock, offers enhanced efficiency and reduced emissions, directly addressing the growing global demand for propylene with superior product selectivity. As a crucial raw material for various downstream products, propylene's production by conventional methods is limited by high energy consumption and increased emissions. PDH's energy-efficient and environmentally benign process makes it a desirable alternative, meeting the ever-growing demand more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with traditional energy-intensive methods that emit high CO2 levels. By utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves superior conversion of propane to propylene with high selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, diminishes oil-based feedstock reliance. Superior vanadium oxide catalysts boost reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This results in lower costs and reduced toxicity, effectively addressing conventional propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a leading solution, offering cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. PDH addresses challenges in conventional propylene production, particularly in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, PDH converts low-valued propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene, making it a promising pathway for meeting the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, meets global propylene demand with enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over traditional methods. A superior catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt-based catalysts, boosts propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing conventional method challenges. Efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity contribute to environmental benefits, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers improvements over conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts, central to PDH, face stability and selectivity issues, highlighting the need for advancements in this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. Despite high-temperature requirements and catalyst deactivation issues due to coke deposition, efforts focus on developing stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts to improve process efficiency and product selectivity, acknowledging coke formation as inevitable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more direct and efficient route for propylene production from propane, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Notably, VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH show promise with high selectivity and stability, targeting disadvantages like high platinum costs and chromium toxicity in current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting rising global propylene demand, leveraging abundant feedstock and minimizing waste. Unlike conventional methods, PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology, utilizing sustainable cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution, addressing limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, overcoming challenges in feedstock use, process efficiency, and environmental impact compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane and butane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene by easily retrofitting existing facilities.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, excels in propylene production with superior efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable output, higher yields, and minimized byproducts. Its energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity reduce oil-based feedstock reliance, streamlining production and enhancing economic viability, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas, efficiently addresses propylene production challenges. It improves on conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy needs and selectivity issues at high temperatures, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these, reinforcing PDH's position as a leading propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, meets rising global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, cost-effective and non-toxic, see enhanced activity and stability with moderate Ni introduction into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, tackling limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, targeting propylene production, overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Its on-purpose process avoids mixed hydrocarbon products, making it more efficient. The advent of fracking has slashed feedstock costs, enhancing PDH's profitability due to the propylene-propane price differential and the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost efficiency and propylene selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal conversion rates with optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures enhance propane conversion, crucial for cost reduction. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation, making it a promising solution for growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over MTO, FTO, and ODH processes, making it a crucial supplement to traditional methods. Leveraging abundant alkanes, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Efficient catalysts are essential for high olefin selectivity, particularly in PDH, due to propylene's lower stability compared to ethylene, ensuring high selectivity towards olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant feedstock, boasting higher selectivity to propene, which leads to increased yields and reduced costs. This directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising approach to meet the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance selectivity, reducing unwanted outputs. Its lower temperature and pressure operation improves efficiency, cuts energy use, and diminishes greenhouse gas emissions, offering superior product selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and compatibility with existing technology. It benefits from abundant propane sourced from natural gas and shale gas production. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR employ specific catalysts, yet face challenges with deactivation and stability. PDH avoids the deep oxidation and COx production issues of oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology for propylene production is driven by escalating global demand and the cost-effectiveness of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, notably with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing research aims to further enhance PDH, making it a promising solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin, leverages abundant shale-gas propane as an alternative feedstock, promising higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. However, the high cost and toxicity issues limit its full potential, highlighting the need for more cost-effective and eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using plentiful propane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies production and cuts costs, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, converts low-value propane to high-value propylene sustainably and cost-effectively, particularly in shale-rich regions. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cleaner and more targeted than conventional methods. PDH is poised to meet growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in addressing the growing global demand for propylene, offering superior product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene. It benefits from abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, a result of advancements in hydraulic fracturing technology. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical in bridging the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shale gas revolution, ensures cost-effective feedstock availability. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields olefins of polymer-quality purity, offering a strategic advantage over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting abundant propane to propylene, ensures feedstock availability, high efficiency, and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Notably, the CoSiBeta catalyst enhances its performance. The pursuit of a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst highlights its dedication to environmental responsibility and product quality, addressing traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, effectively tackling product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production, offering high selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in gas extraction, make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, excels in efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, PDH ensures a steady, low-cost supply chain, directly addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, boosts propylene yields, tackling conventional production hurdles. Despite its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts optimize efficiency and selectivity by fine-tuning properties, enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges by utilizing propane as a feedstock, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, and improving process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, making it economically viable and advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical solution for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand amidst dwindling petroleum resources. It offers a shorter production route by converting propane to propylene, surpassing conventional methods. The process, being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requires high temperatures that can cause side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing PDH's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production, as evidenced by its growing adoption with new plant constructions. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and cost issues, are being addressed by recent advancements in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, which show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering improved efficiency and product selectivity. As ethylene from natural gas and shale gas becomes less available, PDH addresses feedstock limitations, making it a key method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost-effective propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH superior to conventional methods, providing high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production methods. By not relying on depleting petroleum, PDH ensures a steady supply of propylene, meeting the increasing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and selectivity lead to lower operating costs and environmental impact, making it a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity through its endothermic process and the development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, utilizing active Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and limiting overoxidation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, prioritizing abundant elements and low temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, excels in high propylene selectivity and co-produces valuable hydrogen, making it an eco-friendly, efficient solution to meet escalating global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, offers high dehydrogenation activity and 97% propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability. This enhances feedstock flexibility and environmental friendliness, addressing the limitations of conventional methods due to the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability with cost-efficient catalysts. A key catalyst design, encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, enhances stability at high temperatures, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating PDH's capability to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It overcomes the toxicity issues of conventional Cr-containing or Pt-containing catalysts and reduces the need for ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity by about three times, maintaining similar selectivity, demonstrating PDH's superiority in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, provides a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production, addressing the demand-supply gap. This direct conversion method is more efficient and selective than conventional processes, optimizing production to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH addresses conventional method limitations. Its use of shale gas-derived propane makes it sustainable and cost-effective, efficiently activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for propylene production, addressing growing demand. It's more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, emitting less CO2 and NOx. PDH has higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, unlike complex traditional methods. This makes PDH a promising method to meet the increasing need for propylene, crucial for various industries including polypropylene, propylene oxide, and acrylonitrile production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It uses less energy and emits less CO2. With a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues causing catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging vanadium oxide catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich regions, offering superior feedstock availability compared to oil-based sources. It demonstrates enhanced reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity. These advancements contribute to PDH's competitive edge, cost-effectiveness, and lower toxicity, making it a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in meeting the high global demand for propylene, estimated at 116 million tons in 2020. It offers a cost-effective and environmentally sound production method, making it the preferred choice over conventional techniques. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH optimally utilizes low-valued propane, a byproduct of shale gas extraction, ensuring efficient and sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. A highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt-based catalysts, excels in propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing global demand. It outperforms conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering environmental benefits through efficient CH bond activation and extended catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, optimizes feedstock use, enhances process efficiency, and boosts product selectivity, crucially overcoming Pt-based catalyst limitations to ensure sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process using platinum-based catalysts, leverages abundant shale gas resources, offering a significant feedstock advantage over conventional methods. This makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in propylene production due to its onstream stability and high selectivity, directly addressing conventional methods' limitations in process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike steam cracking, PDH offers a more direct and efficient route from propane, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's benefits, using abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products for a more efficient and selective process than conventional naphtha steam cracking, which struggles with fossil energy consumption. PDH's advantages make it a promising solution for meeting propylene demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost. Co's earth abundance ensures PDH's long-term viability, making it a key method to meet global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and efficient conversion of abundant propane. It outperforms conventional methods by being less energy-intensive, yielding higher propylene output, and providing enhanced resource efficiency with a smaller environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane, boosts propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply and minimizing byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses propylene production challenges by improving feedstock efficiency. Despite high energy demands and selectivity issues, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates side reactions and coke formation, enhancing selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in propene production with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The introduction of moderate Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts activity and stability, underscoring PDH's superiority in propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent and less selective. PDH benefits from affordable propane feedstocks due to fracking, and its plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability in the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, overcomes feedstock availability issues. Its efficient ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, showcasing high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, making PDH a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, recognized for its atom-economic conversion of propane to propylene and H2, offers a promising solution to meet global propylene demand. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion rates. Strategies to increase propane conversion, such as adjusting temperature and pressure, are crucial for commercial viability. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, making it a leading method in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties enhance process efficiency, specifically addressing issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Efficient catalysts are crucial for achieving high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and direct method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and efficiency, which leads to increased yields and lower costs. This makes PDH an environmentally friendly solution that overcomes the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high propylene selectivity and efficiency under milder conditions than conventional steam cracking. It achieves high yields with minimal byproducts, reducing energy consumption. Pt-based catalysts enhance selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low CC cleavage activity, minimizing unwanted byproducts. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH potentially decrease greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easy integration with current technology. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts and operate under varying pressures, demonstrating the technology's adaptability and optimization for propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. Indium-based catalysts offer high stability and selectivity, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research aims to enhance PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, leveraging abundant propane reserves. It overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering an alternative to conventional methods. While facing limitations like high catalyst costs and environmental concerns, PDH highlights the need for developing more cost-effective and eco-friendly catalysts, addressing the core issues of propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, addresses global demand by offering higher selectivity, lower energy consumption, and cost-effectiveness. Utilizing abundant propane, PDH simplifies the process and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and globally applicable alternative. Its efficiency and selectivity outperform conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet global demand. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner, more targeted production process that addresses conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual increase in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology emerges as a superior solution for direct propylene production. Its exclusive focus on propylene enhances product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing technology facilitates access to abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, alleviating limitations of conventional methods. PDH's targeted process inhibits side reactions, significantly boosting propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's promise, utilizing abundant shale gas to tackle feedstock scarcity. Enhanced shale gas extraction has significantly reduced gas costs, favoring shale-based ethane over naphtha. This shift has decreased propylene supply, driving up its price and enhancing PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is significantly influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, while its on-purpose technique ensures the production of high-purity olefins, making it a preferred solution in the market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It outperforms conventional methods with high catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike costly CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH employs a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, addressing environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, tackling product selectivity and process efficiency issues. Propane, a readily available feedstock, enhances PDH's superiority over conventional propylene production methods, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and efficient solution for propylene production, with high selectivity. Propane's abundance and lower cost, due to advancements in gas extraction, make PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, offers enhanced efficiency and product selectivity. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply, unlike traditional naphtha and coal methods which struggle to meet the growing demand. PDH's lower costs and product focus make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high activity and selectivity. Despite requiring high temperatures that can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency, addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues that decrease catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical route for propylene production, is pivotal in meeting escalating global demand amidst dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially viable process, PDH converts propane to propylene, offering a shorter production path. However, the high-temperature requirement for this endothermic reaction facilitates side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, presenting a significant challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading propylene production method, addressing environmental and efficiency challenges. Its contribution grows with new plants. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh, show high activity in dehydrogenation, offering a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, as it efficiently meets rising demand, making it a viable alternative in the context of traditional limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is more efficient and cost-effective than conventional methods, with vanadium-based catalysts enhancing activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and the significant price differential between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the challenge of growing propylene demand amidst depleting petroleum resources, making it a promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, reducing dependence on costly naphtha. Its single-step conversion from propane to propylene enhances efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular PDH plants offer flexibility and lower transportation costs, making the technology a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-performance catalysts, addresses global propylene demand by achieving high yields at elevated temperatures, surpassing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock use, efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages for propylene production, notably its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, which addresses the challenges of conventional methods. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids the issue of coke formation, eliminating the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) does not suffer from coke issues but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are promising for their activity and selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally beneficial but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production, addressing feedstock availability. It excels in high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by offering alternative non-petroleum feedstock, enhancing process efficiency, and achieving high product selectivity. The Zn@S-1 catalyst exemplifies PDH's advantages, demonstrating good dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability, making it a viable option for industrial processes and overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, outperforming conventional methods. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating superior efficiency and addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a novel ZnO-based catalyst, offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production. It addresses environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. The ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, highlighting its efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane feedstock, directly converting propane to propylene with enhanced efficiency. It surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing their energy-intensity and demand-supply gaps, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for global propylene demand. It excels in efficiency and selectivity by converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, achieving higher yields than conventional methods. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas and selectively activate CH bonds in light alkanes addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering a superior alternative to less selective traditional processes. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers superior efficiency and reduced CO2/NOx emissions, directly converting propane to propylene with high selectivity. This addresses the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products, in an eco-friendly and energy-efficient manner, surpassing conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, offers a cost-effective, less toxic solution for propylene production. Its vanadium oxide catalysts ensure superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 116 million ton global propylene demand in 2020, PDH technology emerges as the preferred method for production, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH efficiently converts low-valued propane, making it a cost-effective and environmentally sound choice for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing growing demand with better feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. Compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, thanks to the development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst. This makes PDH a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation and reactive longevity, coupled with environmental benefits, make it a leading choice. Pt-based catalysts in PDH notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing global demand efficiently and eco-friendly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, noted for short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production through high-temperature conversion, addressing feedstock availability. It's promising but faces catalyst deactivation challenges, prompting the search for stable, anti-sintering catalysts to boost efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient method for propene production from propane, addressing global demand. These catalysts ensure good stability and high selectivity, overcoming conventional method limitations, notably high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering abundant feedstock and higher efficiency compared to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency. PDH's lower waste production ensures a sustainable propylene supply, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas propane reserves, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a solution, addressing conventional methods' challenges with Cr toxicity and Pt cost, leveraging cobalt's earth abundance for long-term PDH application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, avoiding energy-intensive steps for enhanced resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its adaptability to existing facilities makes it a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable and economically viable solution for propylene production, excelling in efficiency and selectivity. It minimizes byproducts and reduces energy consumption, surpassing traditional methods like steam cracking, ensuring a stable feedstock and enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers enhanced feedstock efficiency, process economics, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Despite its energy intensity and propensity for side reactions, the active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts in ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhance activity and stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and reduced reliance on fossil fuels. Leveraging the low cost of propane from shale gas, PDH is highly profitable due to the price differential between propylene and propane. PDH plants, adaptable for various reactions, effectively address the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability. Its ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, recognized for its atom-economic conversion of propane to high-value propylene and H2, effectively meets global demand. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results, mitigating high energy consumption. Increasing propane conversion, through higher temperatures and lower pressures of hydrocarbons and H2, is crucial for cost reduction. Suitable reaction conditions are essential for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It complements traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, utilizing the abundant alkanes in shale gas to meet the growing global demand for olefins. PDH's thermodynamic limitations ensure high selectivity to olefins, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods. By efficiently activating the CH bond and suppressing CC cleavage, PDH ensures high selectivity toward propylene, making it a superior alternative in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand, particularly in addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, enhances feedstock availability. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, thanks to effective paraffinic CH bond activation. Direct propane conversion minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR operate at varying pressures, with Catofin at low pressure, Oleflex at 13 bar, and STAR at 56 bar, enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, uses catalysts like CrOx/Al2O3 and supported PtSn, with ongoing research on indium-based catalysts for enhanced stability and selectivity. This addresses conventional limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock availability and process efficiency, crucial for meeting global demand. Its product selectivity addresses conventional method limitations. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is pivotal for PDH's future progress.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor design simplifies the process, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice, especially in regions with ample propane supply, directly addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global demand, utilizing abundant shale gas. Unlike traditional naphtha or oil cracking, PDH directly converts propane, offering higher efficiency and selectivity, resulting in a cleaner, targeted production process with minimized environmental impact and maximized economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, shale gas condensates rich in propane are now more accessible and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive production of propylene ensures high selectivity, critical for meeting the forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in global propylene demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, favoring its use in chemicals and fuels. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and highlighting the need for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current propane-propylene price gap, and its on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed olefin products from conventional methods, making it a promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering feedstock advantages over conventional methods. It demonstrates higher efficiency and selectivity, crucial for meeting growing global demand. However, the quest for green, affordable PDH catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores ongoing challenges in product selectivity and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, effectively addressing global propylene demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Its active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, offering feedstock flexibility and process optimization advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity and cost-effectiveness, leverages abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. This addresses the inefficiencies of conventional production methods, specifically in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    