Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene as a single product, enhancing efficiency. It benefits from unconventional natural gas sources, ensuring cost-effectiveness and a steady supply. PDH offers lower production costs and higher efficiency compared to traditional methods, making it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges faced by conventional methods. Despite requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, advancements in nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing affordable propane. PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst activity and stability, and improves feedstock availability and process efficiency by reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical. As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter production route. This technology addresses the limitations of dwindling petroleum resources, being commercially viable and developed by processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its environmental advantages and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its role is expanding with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts face challenges, including Cr(VI) toxicity and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent advancements have led to the development of eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, addressing the limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its superior process efficiency and product selectivity. By optimizing feedstock availability and process efficiency, PDH effectively addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, making it a leading on-purpose propylene production method. Recognized as the most efficient process, PDH meets the high demand for propylene, tackling the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity and regeneration, make PDH a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, by ensuring reliable feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, offering higher efficiency and selectivity. This reduces dependence on costly naphtha, ensures stable supply, and allows for modular, flexible production. PDH's direct conversion process yields higher propylene output with lower energy consumption, making it a sustainable, cost-effective alternative to traditional steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by developing high-performance catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, directly addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Its focus on catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, essential for the endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures, makes PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are also being explored, with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts showing promise. However, ODH-CO2 catalysts have lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing, offering a more sustainable and efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand gap. It offers eco-friendly, cost-effective production with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Zn@S-1 catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. These catalysts exhibit high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, making PDH efficient for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting PDH's efficiency and selectivity in meeting global demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a sustainable solution for propylene production, offering a greener alternative to oil-based cracking by eliminating toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, maintaining high selectivity, thus demonstrating PDH's superiority in meeting global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable and cost-effective feedstock, directly converting propane to propylene with higher efficiency and selectivity. This non-oxidative route addresses the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gaps of conventional propylene production methods, making PDH a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional propylene production methods. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, maximizing yields and efficiently utilizing shale gas resources. PDH selectively activates CH bonds of light alkanes, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to feedstock-dependent methods like steam cracking and FCC, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. It improves on conventional methods by enhancing energy efficiency, reducing CO2 and NOx emissions, and offering higher selectivity for propylene with minimal byproducts, directly addressing the limitations of naphtha and crude oil-based processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with traditional naphtha cracking's high energy consumption and CO2 emissions. By employing a Pt catalyst on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, outperforming Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in traditional plants, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These advancements contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a significant global demand for propylene, estimated at 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the most promising production method. It effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional techniques. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental impact make it a favored process, further bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, which enhance the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, offering enhanced feedstock availability and potentially lower production costs. It streamlines propylene production, improving efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods. A highly active and durable catalyst further optimizes the PDH process, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution to meet the rising global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. Pt-based catalysts, though widely used, have short-term stability issues and suboptimal propylene selectivity, underscoring the need for more efficient alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers a solution to the growing global demand for propylene. Its endothermic process, despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, demonstrates advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are crucial for improving PDH's efficiency. PDH's compatibility with shale gas highlights its superiority in addressing the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. The development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with high selectivity and onstream stability, addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly in increasing propylene production where steam cracking is maxed out. This innovation overcomes drawbacks of current technologies, making PDH an attractive alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, directly tackling the challenges of feedstock availability and process limitations that constrain conventional methods, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology emerges as a key solution. Challenges with toxic Cr and costly Pt catalysts in PDH processes lead to the exploration of cobalt-based catalysts. Cobalt's earth abundance suggests PDH's long-term viability, effectively addressing limitations in conventional propylene production, specifically in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and resource use while reducing environmental impact, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, especially where conventional methods face challenges with feedstock availability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. It's more sustainable and economically viable than traditional methods, with higher propylene yields and minimized byproducts, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas abundance, addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite energy intensity and high temperatures, which challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH employs an effective active site isolation strategy, mitigating side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Zinc-based catalysts with Ni introduction enhance activity and stability, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, crucial for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional fossil fuel-dependent methods with high CO2 emissions and low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon products. Benefiting from fracking technology, PDH uses cheap propane-rich shale gas as feedstock. Its adaptable factories enhance profitability, driven by the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, addressing feedstock availability. It excels with ZnO-based silicalite-1 catalysts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity, offering high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized conditions and catalysts despite thermodynamic equilibrium limits. This energy-intensive process reduces costs by enhancing single-pass propane conversion. Strategies include increasing temperature and reducing pressures. PDH specifically overcomes conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and minimizing by-products, as evidenced by its theoretical and practical efficiency in generating propylene and H2.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a crucial supplement to conventional production methods. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, distinguishing it from alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. Leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic nature provides process efficiency advantages. The use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, ensures high selectivity toward olefins, making PDH a superior choice for propylene production amidst increasing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher propene selectivity, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution that addresses conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane sources to meet rising propylene demand, operating at milder conditions for high yields and reduced byproducts. By directly converting propane to propylene at lower temperatures and pressures, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity, potentially cutting energy use and emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas production, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency over high-pressure processes. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, though deactivation and stability remain challenges. Compared to oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, offer a promising solution to the high costs and environmental issues of conventional propylene production. By refining catalysts, including indium-based and nanocarbon materials, PDH improves stability and selectivity. The technology's efficiency and low propane costs from shale gas make it a viable option to meet global propylene demand, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and abundant propane in shale-gas deposits, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH processes, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin, address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of certain catalysts limit PDH's potential. Developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH to fully realize its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers advantages over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil. PDH exhibits higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock, specifically propane, offering enhanced availability over conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted process minimizes by-products, ensuring a cleaner production method that meets rising propylene demand while reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology stands out for its efficiency in propylene production. It exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity, and benefits from the abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock extracted through hydraulic fracturing. This proprietary method specifically overcomes conventional production limitations, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology offers key advantages. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price differential, currently favorable. PDH's on-purpose technique boosts product selectivity, yielding high-purity olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improve efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and environmentally impactful, the need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underscores PDH's aim to address environmental challenges and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, addressing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts Co-based catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. This addresses product selectivity and process efficiency challenges, highlighting PDH as a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity and cost-effectiveness, leveraging abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction. This efficiency makes PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods with higher energy consumption and lower selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as the sole feedstock and yielding propylene as the single product. Its efficiency, bolstered by the availability of cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, directly addresses the limitations of traditional methods. PDH's competitive edge in production costs makes it a leading solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, PDH's use of nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable option to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. By directly converting propane to propene, PDH bypasses intermediate steps and reduces undesired side reactions, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and petroleum-independent route for propylene production, is economically advantageous and addresses the limitations of conventional methods amid resource depletion. Commercially available through Catofin and Oleflex processes, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most efficient option. However, the endothermic nature and high-temperature requirements of the process lead to side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, posing challenges for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based cracking (Quote [1]). Its growing role is evident from new plant constructions (Quote [2]). However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have issues: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation, requiring environmentally harmful Cl2 or Cl compounds for re-dispersion (Quotes [3]-[6]). Recent eco-friendly developments include ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, showing high activity in dehydrogenation processes (Quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the high demand for propylene, addressing challenges in conventional production methods. Conventional methods, once balanced by naphtha crackers, now face issues due to the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas. PDH, recognized for its efficiency and selectivity, specifically tackles feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a viable option for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas resources, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, capitalizing on abundant propane and the significant price differential between propane and propylene. It overcomes challenges faced by conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures reliable feedstock, boosts process efficiency, and enhances product selectivity, making it a strategic choice for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for propylene production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity while minimizing byproducts and energy use. This results in higher yields and lower costs, offering flexibility and adaptability to market conditions, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, effectively addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Its ability to operate at high temperatures for high yields makes it a promising method, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses global propylene demand by using renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation to develop lower energy PDH routes, potentially transforming propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by achieving high selectivity to propylene and producing valuable hydrogen. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process offers a viable alternative to conventional methods, bridging the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as an alternative to non-petroleum based propylene production. The exploration of zinc catalysts, driven by the scarcity and toxicity of noble metals, leads to the development of Zn@S-1 catalysts. These exhibit high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity, and possess regeneration capability, making them promising for industrial PDH processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, effectively addresses the challenges in propylene production. Notably, non-noble metal catalysts in PDH achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, showcasing its superior efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, eliminating the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the need for chlorine in catalyst regeneration. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, highlighting its efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, directly transforming it into propylene with higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle to meet demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane, abundant from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes enhance efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from shale gas, PDH is sustainable and cost-effective, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a superior solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods reliant on scarce naphtha and crude oil. It is more energy-efficient, emitting lower CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it an eco-friendly and sustainable choice. This process specifically overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a viable alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes that struggle to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking by requiring less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It boasts superior process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which offer enhanced reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability over conventional catalysts, contributing to PDH's competitive performance, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand soaring to 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. PDH overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering superior cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits compared to conventional techniques. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted the conversion of low-valued propane, reinforcing PDH's role in high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for feedstock, directly producing propylene from propane with enhanced efficiency and selectivity. This method potentially reduces production costs and improves selectivity compared to traditional naphtha and heavy oil methods, thanks to the development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in feedstock use, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It ensures efficient feedstock utilization, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand by overcoming conventional method limitations, notably improving on Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering enhanced product selectivity and process efficiency. Its high-temperature conversion process, though facing challenges with catalyst deactivation, necessitates the development of stable catalysts to improve efficiency. PDH's compatibility with shale gas and its potential for product selectivity make it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, addressing conventional method challenges. These catalysts ensure good stability and high selectivity, making PDH an attractive alternative for meeting growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH technology offers an efficient solution with abundant propane feedstock, reduced by-products, and enhanced product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "In response to escalating global propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology, notably using cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a solution to conventional production limitations. Cobalt's earth abundance suggests PDH's long-term viability, addressing the urgent need for new catalysts and enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes, thus addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for propylene production, utilizing cheap propane as feedstock, achieving higher propylene selectivity, and improving process efficiency. It leverages existing facilities, reduces investment costs, and directly addresses the challenges of conventional methods, making it a strategic choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, ensures high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It guarantees a stable supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas availability, offers key advantages in propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as shown by recent developments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, addresses global propylene demand by offering lower costs and nontoxicity. It achieves enhanced catalytic activity and stability, improving conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions, thus enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods, which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon outputs. Fracking's advent has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, addressing availability issues. Efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, yielding high propylene output and stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, offering high yields and low by-product formation. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable results close to the ideal state, despite thermodynamic limitations. Increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustment, pressure control, and H2 management reduces costs, crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits. Efficient catalysts are crucial for achieving high selectivity toward olefins, particularly in PDH reactions, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene, ensuring high product selectivity and addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an environmentally friendly solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers superior propylene production with high yields and minimal byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes effectively activate paraffinic CH bonds, minimizing CC cleavage and maximizing propylene selectivity. Direct propane conversion to propylene in PDH reduces unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially decreases greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, including Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR processes, offers advantages in propylene production by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The recent surge in natural gas production, including shale gas, provides abundant propane for PDH. This technology simplifies reactant and product distribution, reduces investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation issues and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are gaining prominence due to the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These factors address conventional production method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Challenges, including high Pt costs and Cr's environmental impact, have spurred research into indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity. Ongoing investigations into diverse catalysts reflect efforts to enhance PDH technology, making it a promising solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering advantages over conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes, Oleflex and Catofin, are pivotal, yet the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity highlight the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene without steam cracking, boasting higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. It simplifies the process, reducing costs, and is more sustainable and cost-effective, especially in propane-rich regions. PDH's higher product selectivity and process efficiency make it a more energy-efficient option with potentially lower operating costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas to enhance feedstock availability, offering superior efficiency and selectivity in converting propane directly to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective process is particularly advantageous in regions rich in shale gas, effectively meeting the global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enabled by hydraulic fracturing, large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates makes feedstock abundant and cost-effective. PDH's proprietary process exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising solution, overcoming conventional production challenges. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing slashes gas costs, favoring shale gas as a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking reduces propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, is currently favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields high-purity propylene, optimizing olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane to propylene, tackling feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH indicate superior process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. A green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene is essential, addressing product selectivity and environmental impact challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, boosts efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, ensuring product purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high propylene selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalyst contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene. It taps into abundant raw materials from unconventional gas, ensuring a cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs and high efficiency, directly addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production due to its high activity and yields. However, its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures poses challenges like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by affecting propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the increasing global demand for propylene. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and utilizes abundant propane for improved feedstock availability. PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability, making it a competitive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical direct route for propylene production, addressing growing demand and petroleum resource depletion. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH efficiently converts propane to propylene. However, high-temperature requirements for catalytic activity lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its environmental advantages and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods (Quote 1). Its growing significance is evident with the construction of new plants (Quote 2). However, conventional PDH catalysts, such as CrOx and Pt-based, have drawbacks including health risks and high costs (paraphrased from Quotes 3-6). Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, which exhibit high activity in dehydrogenation processes (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene demand, but the rise of ethane cracking disrupted this balance, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH emerges as an efficient method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key technology in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion rates, and minimizing by-products through high selectivity. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, effectively meets growing global propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum. It surpasses traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency, by ensuring better process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions lacking infrastructure. PDH boasts high yields and lower operating costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out as a solution, addressing conventional production limitations. Its key advantage lies in enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity of catalysts for propane dehydrogenation, crucial for high yields at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but ODH-O2 can lead to overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and increase CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. PDH, with its green feedstock and efficiency, holds potential to revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap and abundant propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing global demand and conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the global demand. Due to the scarcity of platinum and chromium toxicity, zinc is explored as an alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, making them suitable for industrial PDH processes. The in-situ reduction of zinc species to active sites enhances the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, is a promising method for propylene production, efficiently addressing the challenges of conventional methods. A nitrogen-doped carbon encapsulated ZnO NP catalyst achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, showcasing PDH's efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a greener solution for propylene production, eliminating toxic Cr(VI) compounds and chlorine use. A ZnO-based catalyst triples propene productivity, matching selectivity, under industrial conditions, outperforming conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, efficiently transforms propane into propylene, addressing the demand-supply gap for propene. This non-oxidative route offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to energy-intensive conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by offering a more abundant and stable feedstock supply through the use of propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods that rely on naphtha. PDH processes enhance efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially when utilizing shale gas resources. PDH's potential for higher yields and selectivity in efficiently utilizing shale gas and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes makes it superior in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. Unlike conventional methods, PDH enhances economic benefits and efficiency, making it a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, meets growing propylene demand more sustainably than conventional methods. It improves feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 and NOx. Unlike traditional processes relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts and offering higher selectivity. Propylene, a key raw material for various products, benefits from PDH's production method, crucial for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. By utilizing a specialized catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing issues of coke formation and sintering common in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. Its use of vanadium oxide catalysts boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, offering competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's efficiency, selectivity, and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising method for high-value propylene production. PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock, enhanced by advances in hydraulic fracturing, offering a more environmentally friendly alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves for improved feedstock availability. It offers potentially higher process efficiency and enhanced product selectivity compared to traditional methods, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production. By leveraging shale gas, PDH can reduce costs and improve efficiency, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It excels in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, particularly through enhanced CH bond activation and reactive longevity. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH boosts propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques, making it an environmentally friendly and economically viable choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It notably overcomes limitations of conventional Pt-based catalysts, improving short-term stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Its ability to leverage shale gas supply highlights its advantages in feedstock availability and product selectivity. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and good stability, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods in terms of efficiency and selectivity. This technology overcomes the high cost and toxicity issues of current catalysts, making it particularly advantageous for propene production where steam cracking cannot meet the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. This technology enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution, especially due to the challenges faced by conventional methods. These methods, using toxic Cr and costly Pt catalysts, limit PDH's expansion. However, cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance, support PDH's long-term viability, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering better resource use and lower environmental impact than traditional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane and butane, boosting propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its adaptability to existing facilities makes it a prime solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and reduced byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock, thanks to shale gas and natural gas availability. It overcomes conventional method limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's challenges are mitigated by the active site isolation strategy, which improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is critical for meeting global propylene demand due to its high conversion rates and selectivity to propene. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, key for efficient propene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and less selective for propylene. The advent of fracking technology has made propane-rich shale gas abundantly available and cheap, making PDH factories highly adaptable and profitable, especially considering the growing demand for propylene and the favorable price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal results with suitable catalysts and conditions. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion through increased reaction temperature and lowered pressures. This addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, and improving process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising supplement to traditional methods for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It leverages shale gas exploitation, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas. PDH boasts high propylene yields with reduced byproducts, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, and employs Pt-based catalysts for superior selectivity. Its direct conversion process, enhanced efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potential for lower greenhouse gas emissions, directly address the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, making it advantageous for propylene production. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, notably Catofin and Oleflex, are advancing with indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity, addressing the high demand for propylene. The low cost of shale gas-derived propane and ongoing research into catalysts like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, highlight PDH's promise in overcoming conventional production challenges, specifically in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane in shale-gas deposits, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. PDH processes like Oleflex and Catofin, using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts respectively, offer improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity highlight the need for more cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane directly to produce propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy use. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and cuts costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice, particularly in propane-rich areas, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting growing global demand. It utilizes abundant shale gas, offering higher efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional naphtha or oil cracking methods. PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions. This technology addresses environmental concerns and maximizes economic benefits, making it a key industry solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses the growing global demand for propylene by enhancing product selectivity and benefiting from abundant, cheaper propane feedstock due to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. Its efficiency and selectivity make it superior to conventional methods, crucial as propylene demand is forecasted to grow annually by 2% to 3% by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its ability to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has made shale gas extraction cost-effective, significantly lowering gas costs and enhancing its attractiveness as a feedstock. The abundance of cheap natural gas liquids, notably ethane, has led to a U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking, causing a propylene supply drop and price surge. This scenario has bolstered PDH's profitability, driven by the price differential between propane and propylene. PDH is an on-purpose technique, exclusively yielding propylene of high purity, making it a preferred method in the current market conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes demonstrates superior efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, addressing the need for a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene. This highlights PDH's focus on product selectivity and environmental impact challenges, distinguishing it from CrOx and Pt catalysts that face issues like high cost and rapid deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity, directly addressing global demand challenges and outperforming MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH superior to conventional methods in meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Its high propylene selectivity addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently meets growing propylene demand by leveraging abundant shale gas alkanes, offering lower costs and a simplified process compared to traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature, however, requires high temperatures, causing issues like coking and particle sintering, which impact selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, directly converting abundant and low-cost propane into propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity from coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical method for propylene production from propane, addresses the limitations of conventional methods by offering an alternative feedstock. Commercially viable through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH tackles challenges posed by dwindling petroleum resources. However, its high-temperature requirements promote side reactions, such as cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is critical for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the need to overcome equilibrium-limited reactions.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental and efficiency advantages for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. New PDH plants indicate growing contribution. However, conventional catalysts have health risks and high costs. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, address these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a prime solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene needs, but ethane cracking from natural gas disrupted this, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH addresses these challenges by ensuring a steady supply of propylene, effectively managing feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, ensuring cost-effectiveness. Its high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production are enhanced by a modular design for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity and selectivity for propylene, contribute to PDH's high efficiency and low cost, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price differential between propane and propylene. This addresses the shortfall of conventional methods, like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to dwindling petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without depleting oil reserves, offering a viable and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing propylene production's sustainability and reducing reliance on costly naphtha. By directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, PDH achieves higher efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. This results in higher yields and lower costs. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation expenses.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. Its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts are essential for efficient propane dehydrogenation. The endothermic reaction at high temperatures ensures high yields, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability compared to conventional methods. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally favorable but yields are lower than DDH and ODH-O2. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. Developing lower energy PDH routes using green propane could revolutionize propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane for high propylene selectivity and valuable H2 by-product, offering eco-friendly, cost-efficient solutions that surpass conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium led to the development of Zn-4@S-1, an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative. This catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97%, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high propene selectivity and propane conversion rates. It utilizes cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals, addressing conventional method limitations. The catalyst's design, with encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, ensures high performance and stability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand while avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, maintaining similar selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, directly converting propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. Its non-oxidative process reduces energy consumption and narrows the demand-supply gap, making PDH a leading technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially achieving higher yields compared to traditional methods. PDH's ability to efficiently utilize shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds for higher propylene yields addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a promising approach in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It enhances feedstock flexibility, improves efficiency, and boosts product selectivity, addressing challenges in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability, directly addressing the growing demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods reliant on naphtha and crude oil, PDH uses abundant propane from natural gas, reducing oil dependency. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable and attractive solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues like coke formation and sintering common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability over oil-based methods. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH boasts competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out due to its cost-effectiveness, environmental benefits, and high product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased the availability of low-valued propane from shale gas, further enhancing PDH's appeal as a preferred pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene to meet global demand. Its key advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity over traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental impact. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, outshining conventional methods. It specifically overcomes the limitations of Pt-based catalysts, which have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, making PDH a more promising and efficient choice.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process using platinum-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production. It effectively utilizes abundant shale gas resources, highlighting its feedstock availability advantage. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and regeneration, PDH's potential to meet global propylene demand makes it a promising method, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, with good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses challenges of conventional methods by providing a more efficient production method, especially where steam cracking demand cannot be increased. PDH overcomes disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, using plentiful propane, outshines conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking by offering higher efficiency and selectivity, producing fewer by-products, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly the toxicity and high cost associated with traditional catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, noted for their promise in PDH, align well with the element's earth abundance, suggesting long-term utility in meeting the increasing need for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets growing global propylene demand by directly converting propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive processes. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane and butane, enabling easy upgrades to existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly tackling the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable and economically viable solution for propylene production. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and maximizing yields, surpassing traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH's streamlined process and lower energy consumption make it cost-effective and environmentally sustainable.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, driven by shale gas and abundant natural gas. This addresses conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite high energy intensity and the need for high temperatures that affect selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propylene production, meeting the growing global demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with moderate Ni, boost catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising industrial raw material production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, solving feedstock availability issues. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, yielding high-quality propylene with stability, making it a superior method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion, but optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. Enhancing propane conversion by increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures reduces costs. Suitable reaction conditions are critical for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH, using widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH provides a thermodynamically efficient method with high endothermic properties, surpassing traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The activation of CH bonds over CC bonds, despite their average binding energies, ensures high selectivity towards olefins. This, combined with the lower stability of propylene relative to ethylene, necessitates the use of appropriate catalysts for optimal olefin selectivity. PDH's ability to utilize alkanes from shale gas as feedstocks specifically addresses the issues of feedstock availability, making it a promising method for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher propene selectivity than conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane sources, enhancing feedstock availability. PDH's direct process results in higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and economically viable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by activating paraffinic CH bonds. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH improves efficiency, reduces greenhouse gas emissions, and is a sustainable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a simpler, cost-effective, and easily integrable method for propylene production. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges like catalyst deactivation and stability are being addressed through research. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, with their specific catalysts and pressures, highlight the technical diversity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, notably Catofin and Oleflex, are advantageous for propylene production due to their use of stable and selective indium-based catalysts. The low cost of propane from shale gas boosts PDH's appeal. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to enhance PDH efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin, is gaining traction for propylene production. Challenges with high-cost Pt and toxic Cr catalysts in these processes underscore the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives. Developing such catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, as it directly addresses conventional production limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a stable and abundant feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, making it cost-effective and efficient. Its single-reactor design enhances sustainability, addressing global demand, especially in regions with ample propane. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, outperforming traditional methods in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, addressing global demand. It leverages abundant shale gas propane for better feedstock availability, unlike conventional naphtha or oil methods. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective method is advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, making it a cleaner, targeted production process that meets increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly yields propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, making it abundant and cost-effective. Propylene demand, projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, highlights the importance of efficient production methods like PDH, which specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs by 75% since 2005, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals and transportation fuels. This has led to a shift in U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price, thus enhancing PDH's profitability. PDH's on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, like propylene, with polymer-quality purity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting abundant propane into propylene. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, particularly with the CoSiBeta catalyst, which boosts catalytic activity and selectivity. PDH tackles challenges by developing green, cost-effective catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficiently inhibiting overoxidation, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly tackling the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. This underscores its advantages in product selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production, offering high selectivity and leveraging abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction. This makes PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and yielding propylene as the sole product, streamlining the process. It taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and efficiency make it a competitive choice, overcoming the limitations of traditional methods that struggle to meet market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, excels in propylene production, offering high yields. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and sintering. Despite this, PDH's efficiency and selectivity, enhanced by nanostructured catalysts, make it a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by improving process efficiency and product selectivity, without the catalyst activity issues of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions remains a key challenge for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by quote [6].", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based methods. Its contribution to propene production is growing. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt have health risks and cost issues. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, have been developed to address these challenges, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene demand, but PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key contender for large-scale propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and reduces capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking, with advancements in shale gas exploration boosting its appeal. The development of novel catalysts, particularly vanadium-based options, is crucial for enhancing activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures a sufficient propylene supply without relying on depleting petroleum resources, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's sustainability and cost-effectiveness. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH achieves higher efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular plant design offers flexibility and lower operating costs, making PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, addressing conventional production challenges. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures for high yields, necessitating the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses conventional methods' challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH-O2) using boron catalysts shows promise without coke issues. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but less efficient. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on lower energy routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production, addressing the growing demand. It achieves high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it a preferred alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising route for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is explored as an alternative catalyst. The Zn@S-1 catalyst shows good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in eco-friendly, cost-effective catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. A PDH catalyst, with NPs encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieved 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, showcasing its efficiency in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, boasting environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The ZnO-based catalyst in PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly transforms propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, which often struggle with energy-intensive processes and a propene demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is an emerging solution, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which often rely on less stable and less available naphtha. PDH's use of shale gas resources makes it more sustainable and cost-effective, with potential for higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, offers a sustainable alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, with higher energy efficiency and lower CO2 and NOx emissions. This makes PDH an attractive solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking. It achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages shale gas for feedstock, reducing oil dependence, and employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts. This enhances process efficiency and product quality, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and selectivity while offering cost and toxicity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "To meet the escalating global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering cost-effective and environmentally sound production of high-value propylene. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH efficiently converts abundant low-valued propane, addressing the limitations of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock availability. It potentially boosts efficiency and product selectivity, simplifying the process and reducing costs. A selective catalyst for PDH can further improve these attributes, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for meeting global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It excels in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, particularly through enhanced CH bond activation. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods which struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in traditional processes limits propylene selectivity and stability, underscoring PDH's potential to revolutionize production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, offers high propane conversion at high temperatures, making it advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Renewed interest in PDH highlights its potential in propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane, addressing the growing global demand. It boasts good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods. Novel catalyst developments aim to overcome drawbacks of current technologies, enhancing PDH's potential as a solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. It addresses the growing demand for propylene, which conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle with due to inefficiencies. PDH's superior efficiency and selectivity make it a leading alternative, overcoming limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and shale-gas-derived propane reserves, PDH technology stands out. Conventional methods, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, are limited by Cr toxicity and Pt's high cost. PDH, employing cobalt-based catalysts, offers a scalable solution with Co's earth abundance ensuring long-term industry sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering better resource utilization and a reduced environmental footprint compared to conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment, and directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, overcoming feedstock constraints, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity. It minimizes byproducts, simplifying production and reducing costs compared to oil-based methods. PDH's superior energy efficiency and higher propylene yields, along with its decreased reliance on complex separation processes, make it a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers key advantages in propylene production. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy consumption and reaction temperatures that can cause cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing global demand. It achieves high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have lower propylene selectivity and rely heavily on fossil fuels. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, enhancing its efficiency. PDH factories are adaptable, capable of running various reactions, which, combined with the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas feedstock, addressing availability issues. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, for instance, demonstrate high activity, stability, and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and propylene yield, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, despite thermodynamic limitations. Strategies like temperature adjustment and pressure control enhance efficiency and propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high propylene yield and selectivity. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand, serving as a supplement to conventional methods. It leverages shale gas exploitation for exclusive olefin selectivity, outperforming MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature enhance process efficiency. Efficient catalysts are critical for high olefin selectivity, especially in PDH, due to propylene's lower stability compared to ethylene. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its ability to leverage widely available propane from sources like shale gas, offering high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, capitalizing on abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, each with distinct catalysts and pressures, including Catofin's atmospheric pressure for efficiency, highlight the technology's versatility. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids the deep oxidation and COx production issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH is optimized through indium-based catalysts, showing high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Ongoing research on diverse catalysts enhances PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering an alternative to limited feedstocks and enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. However, the high cost of platinum and chromium toxicity in PDH catalysts pose significant challenges, underscoring the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, achieving higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor, which reduces costs. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly suitable for regions with ample propane supply, boasting higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting abundant low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with high conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products for a cleaner, more targeted process, making it a sustainable, cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, exclusively producing propylene with enhanced selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has unlocked vast, cost-effective propane supplies, addressing feedstock limitations. Forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, propylene demand highlights PDH's pivotal role in efficient production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights the advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability, influenced by the price differential between propane and propylene, is currently favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies produce a specific olefin, propylene, with polymer-quality purity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing the need for a green, low-cost solution with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficiently preventing overoxidation, and achieving high propylene selectivity. Shale gas extraction ensures a cost-effective and plentiful propane supply, tackling feedstock scarcity. PDH's inhibition of overoxidation boosts process efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its superior propylene selectivity sets it apart from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration in recycling reactions. This addresses conventional method limitations by enhancing efficiency, selectivity, and feedstock utilization, making PDH a viable solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction to meet growing global demand cost-effectively and efficiently, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with its single feedstock-product system, using propane to produce propylene. It taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge in lower production costs makes it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. Despite requiring high temperatures that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, crucial for adsorbing propyl intermediates, thereby addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources by utilizing propane, improving feedstock availability. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering an economical and efficient conversion of propane to propylene. It overcomes limitations in feedstock availability and provides a shorter production route compared to conventional methods. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and low propylene selectivity, PDH's development focuses on creating efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas, addressing feedstock limitations. Its growing role in propylene production, marked by new plant constructions, highlights its efficiency and selectivity advantages. However, conventional catalysts have health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenges of feedstock availability, which became critical as the demand for ethylene and propylene outpaced naphtha crackers' capabilities, leading to the need for on-purpose propylene production. PDH emerges as an efficient alternative, capable of overcoming limitations in feedstock and process efficiency, making it a key method in the current propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a superior alternative, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient propylene supply without depending on dwindling oil reserves, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions lacking infrastructure. PDH boasts lower operating costs, higher yields, and environmental benefits over conventional methods, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling conventional method limitations. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for high yields, underscores the need for advanced catalysts with enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving selectivity. PDH outperforms alternatives like ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 in selectivity and activity. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by efficiently closing the supply-demand gap, leveraging abundant and affordable propane from shale gas. It excels in high propylene selectivity and produces valuable hydrogen, making it an eco-friendly and cost-efficient solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a promising solution for propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' limitations. Zinc, as a non-toxic and abundant alternative, is highlighted through Zn@S-1 catalysts, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity at 853 K, showcasing high selectivity and regeneration capability, and emphasizing PDH's industrial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers superior performance with 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, excelling in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. ZnO-based catalysts further enhance PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. Its direct transformation process is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is an emerging solution, specifically addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages over conventional propylene production methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, addressing feedstock availability. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity, selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Its use of propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, meeting the growing demand for propylene with higher yields and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by converting propane into propylene more efficiently than conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent. Its key advantages include greater feedstock flexibility, higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane for feedstock, achieving higher energy efficiency, reducing CO2 and NOx emissions, and offering superior product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing sustainability. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts meets the growing global demand for this critical chemical raw material more efficiently and environmentally friendly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. It uses a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, achieving high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability. This significantly reduces coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, enhances feedstock availability and reduces dependence on oil-based sources. Its use of vanadium oxide catalysts outperforms conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, underscoring process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These advancements contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "With propylene demand surging to 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering cost-effective and environmentally sound high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in leveraging abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out by utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offering advantages over traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH ensures better feedstock availability, potentially reduces production costs, and simplifies propylene production. The development of superior catalysts for PDH further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental impact. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, poised to address global propylene demand, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, critical hurdles for its superiority in production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing demand for propylene by enhancing feedstock availability. It faces challenges with deactivation of supported platinum-based catalysts due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. The search for anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, aims to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration highlights its advantage in feedstock availability for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers superior onstream stability and high selectivity, making it a preferred method for propene production, especially in regions where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. This development addresses conventional method limitations by providing a more direct and efficient pathway to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane feedstock and producing fewer by-products, directly addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with feedstock availability and by-product generation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and shale-gas-derived propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a solution, particularly with cobalt-based catalysts. Conventional PDH, using toxic Cr or costly Pt catalysts, faces limitations. Cobalt's earth abundance offers a sustainable alternative, enhancing PDH's efficiency in meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing global demand while bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers superior efficiency and a lower environmental footprint than traditional methods, making it advantageous for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane and butane, boosts propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a cost-effective solution for meeting global demand. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities addresses conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates, selectivity, reduced byproducts, and energy efficiency, making it a sustainable and economically viable process compared to traditional methods, thus addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the shift to light alkanes as feedstock, driven by shale gas and natural gas availability, offering key advantages in propylene production. It improves on conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH employs the active site isolation strategy, effectively addressing these challenges and boosting alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective, non-toxic method for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity. Ni-modified zinc-based catalysts enhance catalytic activity and stability. This technology specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, avoiding the hybrid hydrocarbon products common in conventional methods. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks exceptionally affordable for PDH. PDH factories' adaptability and the growing propylene market, along with the price differential between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, addressing a key challenge in propylene production. The development of a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, demonstrating high catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its endothermic nature, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can be optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions to closely match ideal outcomes, as per quote 4. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by enhancing single-pass propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, aligning with quote 9. PDH specifically overcomes conventional method limitations by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, with minimal by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike alternative pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH ensures high selectivity towards olefins, essential for effective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propane's abundance ensures feedstock availability, while PDH's higher selectivity to propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking to achieve high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas for direct dehydrogenation, offering key advantages in propylene production. It simplifies reactant and product distribution, reduces investment, and integrates smoothly with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by the global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, highlights their potential for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research on catalysts, including indium-based ones, aims to improve PDH's efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method. PDH utilizes shale-gas feedstock, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, thus addressing limitations of conventional methods. However, the high cost of precious metals and environmental concerns limit PDH's full potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, offers a more abundant and stable supply compared to conventional methods. PDH processes are designed for higher efficiency and selectivity, targeting propane conversion to propylene, leading to higher yields and potentially lower costs. The single-reactor setup reduces expenses, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, converting abundant shale gas propane into high-value propylene with enhanced efficiency and selectivity. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha or heavier oil, PDH offers greater feedstock flexibility, directly converting propane with high conversion rates and minimal by-products, maximizing economic benefits. This sustainable, cost-effective process is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, making it a cleaner, more targeted solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses the growing global demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional methods. It exclusively produces propylene, enhancing product selectivity, and benefits from abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock due to hydraulic fracturing. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging shale gas's cost-effective extraction to address feedstock availability. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability, given the price gap between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose nature ensures exclusive propylene production of polymer-quality purity, directly addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity. PDH's focus on a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene tackles environmental impact and product selectivity challenges not fully addressed by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency and offers superior propylene selectivity, addressing key challenges in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration in recycling reactions. The active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, effectively addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Propane's abundance and lower cost, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and yielding propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge in lower production costs makes it superior for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges of conventional methods. Despite requiring high temperatures that boost yields, it faces issues like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and efficiency by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH bypasses intermediate steps, improving efficiency and selectivity by reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical solution for propylene production, addressing growing demand and resource depletion. It directly converts propane to propylene, but faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient, stable catalysts under severe conditions is key for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its environmental benefits, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods, and its growing role in propylene production, evident in new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts pose health risks from Cr(VI) and suffer from cost and deactivation issues with Pt-based types. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and product selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. It meets the growing demand for propylene, highlighting its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion and selectivity with minimal by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a superior alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a viable solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant propane supply and significant price advantage over propylene. It overcomes the limitations of traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting oil resources. PDH ensures a sufficient propylene supply without depending on diminishing oil reserves, making it a critical advancement for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's stability compared to naphtha-dependent methods. Its single-step conversion boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. PDH's modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. Economically and environmentally, PDH offers lower operating costs and higher yields, making it a sustainable solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing growing global demand. Its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts are crucial for propane dehydrogenation. The endothermic reaction necessitates high temperatures for high yields, making PDH a promising method that overcomes limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and offering environmental benefits. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, reduces coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements to ensure sustainability and transform propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing the global demand for propylene sustainably and cost-effectively. This method overcomes conventional production limitations, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts such as Zn@S-1, is a promising method for propylene production. It addresses conventional method limitations by offering high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity contrast with scarce and toxic traditional PDH catalysts, making PDH a more efficient and sustainable option to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Environmentally friendly and cost-efficient catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, underscoring PDH's superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective propane source, addressing feedstock limitations. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, reducing energy intensity. PDH's improved process efficiency and product selectivity, as seen in its non-oxidative route, narrows the demand-supply gap for propene, making it an emerging industry technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from various sources like shale gas, ensures a stable and abundant feedstock supply, surpassing conventional methods that rely on naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes enhance efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. This sustainable and cost-effective technology yields higher propylene outputs and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's independence from specific feedstocks, higher efficiency, and selectivity make it advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a key chemical raw material. Unlike conventional methods relying on limited naphtha and crude oil, PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its higher selectivity for propylene, compared to traditional methods, ensures better feedstock availability, especially from natural gas, and reduces oil dependency. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts offers a targeted production method, addressing the challenges of conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with conventional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. By utilizing a specialized catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively addressing common issues like coke formation and sintering, which lead to catalyst deactivation in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for feedstock flexibility, excels in process efficiency and product selectivity. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH outperform Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, contributing to lower costs and reduced toxicity, thus addressing challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method. PDH surpasses alternatives like MTP and WGSR in cost-effectiveness and environmental impact, making it a preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane utilization through abundant shale gas extraction, addressing feedstock availability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene, leveraging abundant shale gas for potentially lower costs and a more efficient process. Developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst could further enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, enabling efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods, while also providing environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the rising global demand for propylene, though Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, indicating ongoing challenges in the field.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers a promising solution for propylene production, addressing feedstock availability challenges. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, is enhanced by the use of stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, improving process efficiency and product selectivity. This makes PDH a viable method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and good onstream stability, making it a promising alternative for propylene production. It addresses the growing global demand more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, especially in regions with feedstock limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly overcoming the limitations of conventional naphtha steam cracking methods that struggle to meet rising demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, is a sustainable and promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, offering a more abundant and cost-effective alternative for long-term use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive steps, improving resource use and reducing environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, utilizing cheap propane as feedstock, achieving higher propylene selectivity, and enhancing process efficiency. It addresses challenges by leveraging diverse feedstocks and enabling the retrofitting of existing facilities, making it a promising solution for growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, ensures a stable propylene supply, is energy-efficient, and has high selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable and economically viable solution, overcoming conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the abundance of light alkanes from shale and natural gas, emerges as a solution to propylene production challenges, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and selectivity issues, the effective active site isolation strategy mitigates these challenges, as evidenced in practice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in propene production, crucial for various industries. By incorporating Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolites, PDH overcomes catalyst limitations, enhancing activity and stability. This method specifically tackles conventional production challenges by ensuring feedstock availability, achieving high conversion rates, and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, making it a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by offering a targeted, on-purpose process that specifically yields propylene, avoiding the low selectivity and fossil fuel dependency of traditional methods. Its feedstock, propane, is abundant and cheap due to fracking technology, making PDH highly adaptable and profitable, especially considering the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage in meeting global propylene demand. Utilizing efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, demonstrating high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process (Quote 3), efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts achieve near-ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption (Quote 5) is mitigated by strategies to increase propane conversion, such as adjusting temperature and pressure. This technology specifically tackles conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with minimal by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demands for olefins. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, directly converts propane to propylene with high yields and minimal byproducts. It operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology, addressing challenges in propylene production. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specific catalysts and operation conditions for optimized performance. Despite catalyst deactivation challenges, efforts are made to improve stability. PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it more selective for propylene production compared to oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Ongoing research into catalysts aims to improve PDH's stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, emerges as a promising solution. It leverages feedstock availability to overcome conventional production challenges. However, the high Pt cost in Oleflex and Cr toxicity in Catofin highlight the need for more cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers advantages over conventional methods by utilizing more abundant feedstocks. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, with a simplified single-reactor process that reduces costs. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective option, particularly in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts low-value feedstock into high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity, with minimal by-products, result in a cleaner, targeted production process, effectively meeting growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock is now accessible, making PDH a proprietary method that exclusively produces propylene, boosting selectivity. With a forecasted 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, escalating its price and highlighting PDH's potential. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the current propane-propylene price gap. As an on-purpose technique, PDH excels in producing high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that yield mixed products, making it a compelling choice in today's market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The CoSiBeta catalyst's superior catalytic activity and selectivity over conventional methods is a highlight. However, the high cost and environmental concerns of current PDH catalysts underscore the need for a more sustainable, cost-effective alternative with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity, addressing challenges in conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in C3H6 selectivity over 95% and offers good regeneration stability, tackling process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction ensure abundant propane, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    