Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. The abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, making PDH a competitive choice that directly addresses the growing global demand for propylene, unlike traditional methods which struggle to meet this demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a targeted solution for propylene production, offering high yields despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for fulfilling the escalating global need for propylene, a vital petrochemical in various products. As petroleum reserves dwindle, PDH stands out as the most cost-effective and direct route for propylene production. This method addresses conventional production challenges by offering better feedstock utilization and process efficiency. However, the high-temperature requirement of PDH leads to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under harsh conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency benefits over oil-based cracking methods, addressing global propylene demand sustainably. Its contribution to propylene production is growing with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and cost. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology as a promising solution, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity. PDH improves feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a suitable on-purpose method. It effectively tackles the limitations of traditional methods, as highlighted, being the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, offering cost benefits over traditional naphtha. It excels in process efficiency and selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency, lower-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane and a significant price gap to economically meet growing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures process efficiency and product selectivity without depleting petroleum resources, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, reducing reliance on costly naphtha. Its single-step conversion process to propylene boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular plant design enables flexible, localized production, ensuring PDH is economically and environmentally superior, with lower costs and higher yields than conventional steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging high-performance catalysts for enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity. This addresses the endothermic reaction's high temperature requirement for optimal yields, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts and using renewable green propane. Unlike DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. ODH-O2, utilizing boron catalysts, shows promise without coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation, aiming to transform propene manufacturing through lower energy routes from green propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensuring stable feedstock. It boasts high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly, cost-efficient production, making it a preferred alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is being investigated as a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, demonstrate good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, highlighting zinc's potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, through controlled ZnO NP size and encapsulation in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production. This method achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the need for harmful chlorine in catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, enhancing propylene production. Its direct transformation process boosts efficiency and output, offering superior product selectivity compared to conventional methods. As an emerging, non-oxidative route, PDH is more efficient and aligns with industry trends.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers key advantages over conventional propylene production methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. PDH processes are more efficient and selective, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. By leveraging propane from shale gas, PDH becomes more sustainable and cost-effective, offering higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, using abundant propane from natural gas as feedstock, unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and offers higher selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the growing global demand. This contrasts with traditional processes that are high energy-consuming and significantly increase CO2 and NOx emissions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas by using propane as a feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outperform conventional options, boosting efficiency and selectivity. This results in a competitive edge, lower production costs, and decreased toxicity, making PDH a viable solution for increasing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. Unlike methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR), PDH is cost-effective and environmentally friendly, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane availability, further enhancing PDH's conversion and utilization capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, offers a more direct and efficient process for propylene production. It improves feedstock availability, potentially reduces costs, and enhances product selectivity compared to traditional methods. An active PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. Its CH bond activation capability ensures longer reactive longevity and environmental benefits. Utilizing Pt-based catalysts, PDH significantly boosts propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively overcoming limitations of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes conventional method limitations. Pt-based catalysts, though common, have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, underscoring PDH's potential for enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing the growing demand for propylene. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods by offering higher process efficiency and product selectivity. Challenges include catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating the development of stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts for cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing growing demand and limitations in increasing output through steam cracking. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation show good stability and high selectivity, offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, leveraging abundant feedstock and high selectivity to meet growing global demand. It addresses challenges faced by conventional methods, offering a more efficient and sustainable solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, particularly due to the challenges posed by conventional methods' toxicity and high costs. Cobalt-based catalysts, benefiting from Co's earth abundance, offer a viable long-term alternative, addressing the limitations of traditional PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive steps, offering better resource use and lower environmental impact than traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities makes PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, excels in propylene production by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It ensures a stable propylene source, boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, and minimizes byproducts, making it more sustainable and economically viable than traditional methods like steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock, due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It improves on conventional methods by enhancing feedstock efficiency and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH employs an active site isolation strategy to boost selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, provide cost-effective, nontoxic alternatives with improved catalytic activity and stability, addressing global demand for propylene production more effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts, unlike conventional methods. The fracking boom has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, enhancing its profitability. PDH plants are adaptable, capable of running various reactions, and the growing demand for propylene, coupled with the price differential between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional propylene production methods. Utilizing efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH demonstrates high activity, stability, and selectivity for propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite thermodynamic limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustment, pressure reduction, and H2 partial pressure lowering is pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH utilizes widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to conventional methods. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, and leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas. PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it advantageous over traditional methods. Its thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties contribute to process efficiency. Efficient activation of the CH bond with suppression of CC cleavage is crucial for PDH catalysts, ensuring high selectivity toward olefins. The use of alkanes as feedstocks in PDH specifically tackles issues faced by conventional methods, making it a key technology in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, with higher selectivity to propene than conventional methods. Utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and petrochemical processes, PDH addresses feedstock availability challenges. Its direct process results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and economically viable choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases to meet growing propylene demand. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas, including shale gas, provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, offering energy efficiency and cost savings. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues remain challenges, but PDH offers a more selective and efficient process for propylene production compared to conventional methods, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, exemplified by Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH optimizes high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations, through the investigation of indium-based and other catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing processes like Oleflex and Catofin with specialized catalysts, is emerging as a key solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Its reliance on abundant propane from shale-gas deposits enhances feedstock availability, while improving process efficiency. However, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical area for advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for propylene production, offering higher yields and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and targets higher product selectivity and energy efficiency, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method. Unlike conventional naphtha or oil-based methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, addressing feedstock limitations and meeting growing global demand with minimal environmental impact and maximized economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2% to 3% annual growth in global propylene demand by 2035, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out for its direct propylene production, enhancing selectivity. PDH leverages abundant, cost-effective feedstock from shale gas condensates, thanks to hydraulic fracturing. This method, producing solely propylene, contrasts with conventional hybrid-product processes, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its ability to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have slashed gas costs, making shale gas, notably ethane, a prime feedstock for chemical production. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and highlighting PDH's potential. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current price gap between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce mixed olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst offers high activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally problematic CrOx and Pt catalysts, the quest for a green, affordable PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene highlights PDH's efforts to overcome product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, avoiding overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, directly addressing challenges in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, overcoming production challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, overcoming conventional methods' inefficiencies. Leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrates, PDH offers an efficient solution to the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and yielding propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH offers lower production costs and improved selectivity, making it a competitive alternative to traditional methods that struggle to meet growing demand, as highlighted by its advantages such as single feed, single product, wide raw material source, and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite needing high temperatures, nanostructured catalysts enhance propylene yields by boosting efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by improving process efficiency and product selectivity, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. This method bypasses intermediate steps and minimizes undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its economic and process efficiency in propylene production, offering a direct, petroleum-independent conversion from propane. This makes it the most economical option among alternatives. However, its endothermic nature poses challenges, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is critical for industrial propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and growing in importance with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing the drawbacks of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, making it an efficient and on-purpose method for propylene production. The disruption caused by natural gas and shale gas in the balance of industrial demand for ethylene and propylene highlights PDH's advantages in tackling these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are key to PDH's superiority over conventional methods, making it a cost-effective and high-efficiency alternative for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane resources and leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the depletion of petroleum resources that limits conventional propylene production methods. This method ensures a sufficient propylene supply, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a superior alternative for propylene production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in one step, reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's high yields and lower costs make it a more economically and environmentally sound choice than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature demands high temperatures for optimal yields, underscoring the critical role of developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yield and addresses global propylene demand by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. PDH, with further development, can transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by efficiently converting abundant, cheap propane from shale gas into propylene with high selectivity, producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product, thus bridging the supply-demand gap and offering eco-friendly, cost-effective production over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative, demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it ideal for industrial PDH processes, thus overcoming scarcity and toxicity issues of current catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, overcoming conventional method limitations. Demonstrating its efficiency and product selectivity, PDH catalysts, through encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing environmental concerns while meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane source. It efficiently transforms propane to propylene, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing their limitations. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, emerging as a solution to the challenges of conventional production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a more abundant and stable feedstock supply than naphtha. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, making it a sustainable option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently meets growing propylene demand, offering higher selectivity than conventional methods. Propane, sourced from natural gas, ensures better availability than naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its direct conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, enhancing selectivity. This sustainable method is a promising solution for the global need for propylene, a key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, mitigating catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging vanadium oxide catalysts, excels in propylene production, particularly in shale gas-rich areas. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 116 million ton demand for propylene in 2020, PDH technology stands out for its enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further promote PDH by converting low-valued propane from shale gas, underscoring its role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane as feedstock. PDH offers enhanced efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods like steam cracking, by directly converting propane to propylene, potentially reducing costs and complexity. The development of a selective and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, excelling in CH bond activation and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to meet global propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods by overcoming catalyst limitations that affect efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing demand for propylene by employing a high-temperature, endothermic process. It offers improved process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are crucial for PDH's effectiveness, as they can withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring frequent regenerations, enhancing the technology's potential for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers efficient and selective propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. These catalysts ensure good stability and high selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH is particularly advantageous where propene demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. Ongoing catalyst development aims to overcome cost and toxicity issues, further boosting PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a viable solution, capitalizing on abundant feedstock and reducing by-products, thus addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a key solution. It tackles the limitations of conventional methods by utilizing abundant feedstocks and improving process efficiency and product selectivity. Cobalt-based catalysts, with their earth abundance, offer a promising alternative to toxic chromium and costly platinum, ensuring PDH's long-term viability and addressing the urgent need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of cost-effective propane and butane feedstocks, ability to retrofit existing facilities, and superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively overcoming the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in high propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This method is more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable than oil-based processes, which have lower yields and require complex separation. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced oil dependency make it a promising solution for growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to abundant light alkanes as feedstock, thanks to shale gas and natural gas. It overcomes conventional method challenges by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as demonstrated.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and achieves high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, enhancing efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, improved with Ni, boost activity and stability, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a targeted and efficient method for propylene production, offering high selectivity unlike conventional processes with low propylene yield and high CO2 emissions. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH economically viable. PDH plants, being adaptable and benefiting from the price differential between propylene and propane, are highly profitable, especially in the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a critical advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing advanced ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH enhances catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, significantly improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal conversion rates through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. To enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, increasing propane conversion can be achieved by adjusting temperature, reducing hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring practical performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand. It leverages abundant shale gas feedstock, providing process efficiency benefits over pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity towards olefins, particularly in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient approach to propylene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH environmentally friendly and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers superior propylene production by operating under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. This enhances efficiency and selectivity, consuming less energy and potentially reducing emissions. PDH's direct propane-to-propylene conversion minimizes unwanted byproducts, offering high selectivity and efficiency over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources, offering a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. It addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding deep oxidation issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, and providing a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology is due to the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research indicates efforts to further enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity, solidifying its position as a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane, catalytic PDH (Oleflex, Catofin) emerges as a promising propylene production method. It tackles conventional production limitations, focusing on developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts to address high costs and toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene. It provides a more abundant feedstock, boasts higher propylene selectivity, and lower energy consumption, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from shale gas, efficiently converts it into high-value propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH offers greater sustainability and cost-effectiveness. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, making it cleaner and more targeted. PDH's ability to turn low-value propane into value-added propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits makes it the most promising method for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in exclusive propylene production and enhancing product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective, a key advantage over conventional methods. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging enhanced shale gas extraction to secure affordable feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, driving up prices and highlighting PDH's potential. PDH's profitability hinges on the price gap between propane and propylene, while its on-purpose technique ensures high-purity propylene production, unlike conventional mixed-product methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through the CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for propylene. PDH aims to overcome challenges in selectivity and environmental impact by developing green, cost-effective catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, preventing overoxidation, and offering high propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, effectively addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrates good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species, tuned by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in gas extraction, make PDH a promising method that surpasses conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, enhancing process efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. PDH's competitive edge, including lower production costs, makes it superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, overcoming conventional challenges. Despite requiring high temperatures that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane into propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It improves feedstock availability and enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, making it a competitive alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets growing propylene demand, converting propane directly while addressing feedstock limitations. Commercially viable through Catofin and Oleflex, it faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that cause side reactions, reducing propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing robust catalysts under severe conditions is key for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its environmental advantages and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based methods. Its role is expanding with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh, which show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting growing global propylene demand, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a viable on-purpose method for propylene production. Recognized as the most efficient process, PDH plays a crucial role in the current industrial landscape, balancing the demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs. Advancements in non-noble metal catalysts, notably vanadium-based, enhance PDH's activity and selectivity, making it a promising, cost-effective alternative to steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient propylene supply without dependence on depleting oil reserves, making it a promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity in a single step, unlike multi-step conventional methods. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas lacking infrastructure. PDH's high yields and lower costs make it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, addressing conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, operating at high temperatures, uses high-performance catalysts for enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity, addressing conventional propylene production challenges by achieving high yields and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and potentially utilizing CO2. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, avoids coke and overoxidation issues, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, needs improvement in propene yield. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development in lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand gap, offering high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product. Its eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst shows good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity and a STY of 24 at 853 K, highlighting PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it suitable for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, outperforming conventional methods. Notably, PDH catalysts, sans non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing efficiency and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior alternative for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional methods. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to traditional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for stable, cost-effective propane feedstock. It directly converts propane to propylene efficiently, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it a leading technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to naphtha-based methods. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, improving efficiency and selectivity. Utilizing propane from diverse sources, including shale gas, PDH ensures higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior approach to propylene production, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene more efficiently than steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its key advantages include enhanced feedstock flexibility, improved process efficiency, and better product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering several advantages over conventional production methods. It utilizes abundant propane from natural gas, reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, directly tackling the challenges of conventional methods which are high in energy consumption and emissions. This makes PDH a more environmentally friendly and sustainable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering issues common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas resources, reduces oil-based feedstock dependence. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These catalysts also ensure competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, solidifying PDH's position as a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out as the most promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, a vital industrial component, faces a significant demand. Compared to MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane, further promoting its utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves to directly convert propane to propylene, offering enhanced feedstock availability and potentially lower production costs. Its more direct process boosts efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. The development of a selective and durable PDH catalyst further improves process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for propylene production, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, boasts longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for increasing global propylene production, though Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, indicating ongoing challenges in the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process using abundant propane from shale gas, addresses global propylene demand challenges. It leverages increased propane supply, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability. However, catalyst deactivation by coke deposition limits efficiency, necessitating stable Pt-based catalysts for cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH show good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing limitations of current technologies like high costs and toxicity. This makes PDH a more direct and efficient route for propylene production from propane, especially in light of growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant feedstock and reducing by-products. It directly tackles the inefficiencies of conventional methods, offering a more selective and efficient process for propylene production, making it a chemical industry focus.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and the expansion of shale-gas reserves, PDH technology is emerging as a solution to the limitations of conventional production methods. Challenges such as the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum in traditional processes have led to the exploration of new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts are highlighted as a promising alternative, offering long-term utility due to their effectiveness in PDH and the earth's abundance of cobalt, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, optimizing resource use and minimizing environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers easy retrofitting and superior propylene selectivity and efficiency, directly tackling conventional production challenges amid growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and reduced byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable, offering a sustainable solution to meet growing global demand, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to abundant light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas, addresses conventional method challenges. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and temperatures leading to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, tackling key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, surpassing conventional techniques. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, facilitated by zinc-based catalysts enhanced with Ni for improved activity and stability, directly addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. As an on-purpose process, PDH targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon outputs. Enhanced by fracking, PDH benefits from inexpensive propane feedstocks. Its adaptability and the propylene market's growth, alongside the price differential between propylene and propane, make PDH highly lucrative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional propylene production methods. It employs advanced catalysts, exemplified by a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thus improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, offsetting high energy consumption. Increasing propane conversion for a single pass reduces costs, though it's complex. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high propylene yield and low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, serving as an effective supplement to conventional propylene production methods. Amid growing global demand, PDH leverages shale gas exploitation, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Compared to methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, making it a promising solution for meeting increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, boasting higher selectivity to propene and utilizing abundant propane feedstocks. This results in higher yields and lower production costs, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from sources like shale gas, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking to achieve high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Its use of Pt-based catalysts enhances propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, while lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas production. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlights continuous efforts to enhance PDH technology, making it a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a promising solution, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in these processes limit PDH's potential, underscoring the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers abundant and stable feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process, addressing global demand and conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods. This sustainable and cost-effective approach is advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, meeting global propylene demand with minimal environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, offers enhanced selectivity and efficiency, making it a leading solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Hydraulic fracturing technology has significantly increased the availability of propane, a key feedstock, making it more plentiful and cost-effective. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at an average annual rate of 2-3% until 2035, PDH's ability to produce propylene directly without byproducts is crucial for addressing the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction has slashed gas costs, leading to a U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking. This shift reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, is bolstered by current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields a specific olefin, achieving polymer-quality purity, unlike conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane feedstock, offering a key advantage in propylene production. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Addressing the high cost and environmental impact of CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH aims to develop a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and stable regeneration in recycling reactions, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. The active Co species, influenced by Ti species, and surface acid properties contribute to enhanced selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods with high propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and yielding propylene as the sole product, directly addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, PDH ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, making it a competitive choice in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, impacts selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a viable method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by avoiding issues common in conventional methods, such as hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity. PDH improves efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical method for propylene production, offering a direct route from propane. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative to dwindling petroleum resources. However, PDH faces challenges due to its highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking methods in propylene production. Its significance grows with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, including CrOx and Pt-based types, have health risks and cost issues, respectively. Recent developments feature eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, demonstrating high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is acknowledged for its efficiency and selectivity in meeting the high global demand for propylene. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, emerging as a solution to the disrupted balance in propylene production caused by shifts in natural gas and shale gas usage.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant shale gas, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. Advancements in non-noble metal catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, enhance activity, selectivity, and regeneration, addressing limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price gap between propane and propylene, addressing challenges in conventional propylene production methods. It ensures feedstock availability, improves process efficiency, and enhances product selectivity, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene without relying on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing feedstock availability. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with lower energy consumption. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, making it economically and environmentally viable, particularly in regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by ensuring high yields at high temperatures, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing active Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by leveraging renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative methods, PDH avoids coke formation, and ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, minimizes overoxidation, though it requires further development. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, needs improved catalysts for better CO2 activation. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and exploring more abundant elements. Research on low-temperature CO2 activation is crucial. PDH, with green propane, can revolutionize propene manufacturing, offering a more sustainable and efficient solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing cheap, widely available propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. Its eco-friendly and cost-efficient nature makes PDH an attractive alternative to conventional methods, effectively closing the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Zinc, an abundant and non-toxic metal, offers a viable alternative to current PDH catalysts, mitigating scarcity and toxicity issues. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate high propylene selectivity and regeneration capability, highlighting zinc's potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-performance catalysts, achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, outshining conventional methods in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand challenges. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, showcasing environmental benefits. A novel ZnO-based catalyst triples propene productivity, matching selectivity, under industrial conditions, highlighting PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. As an emerging, non-oxidative route, PDH is recognized for its efficiency in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers enhanced feedstock availability. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of propane from shale gas makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option, meeting the growing demand for propylene with higher yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for propylene production. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with scarce feedstocks and high emissions. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it a promising alternative to meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, reduces dependence on oil-based feedstocks, making it advantageous for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity with competitive performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 116 million ton demand for propylene in 2020, PDH technology stands out for its ability to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It's favored for being cost-effective and environmentally beneficial, making it the preferred method for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing enhance propane utilization, further solidifying PDH's role in meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand, PDH technology stands out by utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, potentially reducing costs. PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, with advanced catalyst development further boosting its process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering efficient CH bond activation, prolonged reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, noted for short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, underscoring the need for enhanced catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering higher process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Its ability to leverage shale gas highlights its advantages, despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are desired to improve stability during cyclic coke combustion, avoiding the limitations of conventional oxychlorination regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising alternative for propene production, offering high selectivity and onstream stability. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it an attractive option where steam cracking cannot meet demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a steady supply without the constraints of traditional methods, making it advantageous for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology addresses limitations of conventional methods by utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, which, due to Co's earth abundance, ensure long-term viability for propylene production, overcoming challenges posed by the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high selectivity in converting propane directly into propylene, offering a more efficient and environmentally friendly alternative to energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, offers high propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand. Its ability to integrate into existing facilities addresses investment concerns, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, ensures stable propylene supply with higher yields and lower byproduct formation, making it more energy-efficient and economically viable than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas, addresses conventional propylene production limitations. Despite energy intensity and high temperatures leading to selectivity and stability challenges, the active site isolation strategy mitigates these issues, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing global demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, notably those enhanced by Ni in ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, boost catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, directly targeting propylene without fossil fuel dependency or high CO2 emissions, unlike conventional methods. It boasts higher propylene selectivity, crucial for meeting growing demand. PDH benefits from affordable propane feedstocks, a byproduct of fracking, and its adaptable factories enhance profitability, especially considering the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, addressing feedstock availability. It employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thus improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results. As a high energy-consuming process, PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock, achieving high propylene yields with low by-product formation, and improves process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the abundant feedstocks in shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH using O2, CO2, and N2O, PDH's unique selectivity to olefins makes it advantageous in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It offers higher selectivity to propene than other methods, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking. Its direct conversion to propylene ensures high selectivity and efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas production, offering a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. This method addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Despite ongoing issues with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids the drawbacks of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, such as Catofin and Oleflex, for propylene production is driven by growing global demand and low shale gas-derived propane costs. Indium-based catalysts in PDH offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods. PDH utilizes two primary technologies: the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. However, the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr catalysts pose challenges, underscoring the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more abundant and stable propane feedstock for propylene production, improving on conventional methods. It boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a single-reactor design, enhancing efficiency and sustainability. This makes PDH a cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand, especially in propane-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, offering high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. Unlike traditional naphtha or oil-based methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it sustainable and cost-effective, particularly in shale-rich areas. Its targeted conversion process boosts propane conversion and propylene yield, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, thus addressing global demand more cleanly and economically.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for direct propylene production, addresses conventional method limitations by leveraging cheaper, plentiful propane from hydraulic fracturing. Its exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity, crucial as propylene demand grows 2-3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing conventional production limitations. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, escalating its price and propelling PDH opportunities. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed-product conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and environmentally impactful, PDH focuses on developing a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers superior product selectivity and process efficiency for propylene production, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, enhancing PDH's performance in recycling reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in extraction techniques, ensure PDH's superiority over conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging single-feedstock propane to yield single-product propylene, enhancing efficiency. It utilizes abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady supply and lower production costs compared to conventional methods, which struggle to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using advanced catalysts, excels in propylene production, addressing global demand. Despite requiring high temperatures that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH a superior method.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges by utilizing propane, improving feedstock availability and process efficiency. Direct conversion bypasses intermediate steps, reducing side reactions and enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. It addresses the growing demand for propylene, a key petrochemical, and offers an alternative to conventional methods strained by dwindling petroleum resources. However, PDH's high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing PDH's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role is evident in new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering costs. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, offer a solution for high activity in dehydrogenation processes, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is hailed for its superior efficiency and product selectivity in propylene production, directly tackling the feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges that limit conventional methods. This makes PDH a leading solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas as feedstock, achieving high propylene conversion and selectivity rates. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity, and it boasts lower capital costs than traditional petrochemical plants. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, offer a safer and cost-effective alternative to platinum and chromium(VI) catalysts, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on depleting petroleum resources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step. Its modular plant design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, meets growing propylene demand by operating at high temperatures for high yields. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and minimizing overoxidation. PDH's environmental and economic advantages, including high atom economy and reduced toxicity, make it superior to steam cracking and MTO. While ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 show potential, they face issues with selectivity and low intrinsic activity, respectively. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. With further research, PDH can transform propylene production, aligning with sustainability goals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the growing propylene demand. It offers eco-friendly, cost-effective production with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts like Zn@S-1, offers advantages over conventional methods in propylene production by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene while overcoming limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, efficiently addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Specifically, PDH catalysts, free of non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing its efficiency and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity with comparable selectivity to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective feedstock, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It efficiently converts propane to propylene, tackling energy intensity and supply-demand gaps. PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity advantages make it an emerging industry solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to naphtha-based methods. PDH processes enhance efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, achieving higher yields compared to traditional methods, especially when utilizing shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a high-value conversion of propane to propylene, serving as an efficient alternative to traditional methods. Unlike steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, PDH is less feedstock-dependent, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, efficiently meets growing propylene demand. It's more energy-efficient than conventional methods, emitting less CO2 and NOx. Unlike oil-based feedstocks, propane from natural gas ensures better availability. PDH's direct conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it a sustainable choice for this critical chemical raw material, extensively used in products like polypropylene and propylene oxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental benefits in propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for feedstock, reduces oil dependence and employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2020 demand for 116 million tons of propylene, PDH technology stands out as the most promising production method, offering cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over conventional techniques. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from shale gas, further solidifying PDH's role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its advantages include improved feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and enhanced selectivity over conventional methods like steam cracking. A selective and durable catalyst boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers superior feedstock availability and process efficiency, excels in CH bond activation with longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's potential to meet global propylene demand is challenged by the limitations of Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit limited stability and selectivity, impacting efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers key advantages in propylene production by improving feedstock availability and process efficiency. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are crucial for enhancing PDH's efficiency, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, especially when conventional steam cracking capacity is exceeded. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH offer high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing the challenges of conventional methods, which include high costs and environmental concerns due to toxic catalysts. The development of these catalysts is crucial for PDH's success.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand challenges conventional production methods, like naphtha steam cracking, due to declining fossil energy. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a solution, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, making it attractive for sustainable propylene production and addressing traditional process limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology stands out as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH, using cobalt-based catalysts, demonstrates long-term viability due to cobalt's earth abundance, making it a key technology for meeting propylene production needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane readily available from petrochemical processes, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its compatibility with existing facilities minimizes investment for retrofitting, making it a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand by effectively addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and reduced byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based methods, making it a sustainable solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to abundant light alkanes as feedstock (Quote 2). It overcomes conventional method challenges by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy requirements and temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking (Quotes 1, 3, and 4), PDH's effectiveness is bolstered by the active site isolation strategy (Quote 5), addressing selectivity and catalyst stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing global demand and challenges of conventional methods. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances catalytic activity and stability, making PDH superior for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking boom has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, extremely affordable. PDH factories' flexibility and the significant price gap between propylene and propane, coupled with a growing market demand, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. It employs high-efficiency ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity and yield, thus outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite conversion limits due to its endothermic nature, optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes, PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide efficiency benefits, specifically addressing the limitations of conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, efficient, and cost-effective solution for propylene production, with higher selectivity to propene than conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane from diverse sources, addressing feedstock availability issues. PDH's direct process results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive option to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a flexible feedstock option, utilizing propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas serves as a steady, economical feedstock. PDH processes, including Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, operate efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with the complexity and cost of conventional methods. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, although deactivation and stability issues are ongoing challenges. PDH avoids the deep oxidation and COx production issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods, and holds promise in meeting production needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, are crucial in meeting demand. However, the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for further PDH process advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane, higher product selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH offers higher yields and potentially lower operating costs compared to conventional methods. Its single-reactor design reduces capital and operating expenses, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas. This direct conversion to propylene is highly efficient and selective, minimizing by-product production. PDH's targeted process meets growing propylene demand while reducing environmental impact, making it particularly advantageous in regions with shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock more abundant and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive propylene production enhances selectivity, while regulated reaction conditions boost yield by minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, driving up prices. PDH's profitability, bolstered by the propane-propylene price gap, thrives in current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity olefins, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity outperform conventional methods, which struggle with high-cost catalysts and fast deactivation. PDH's pursuit of a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores its commitment to environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, making it a standout solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, effectively addressing challenges in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity and leverages abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, excels in efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Leveraging abundant shale gas, PDH ensures a steady supply of light alkanes, offering lower production costs and improved selectivity compared to traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods, which struggle to meet growing market demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, tackling challenges of conventional methods. Despite its high-temperature operation, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, advancements in nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane as a key raw material. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, thus improving catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable, direct, and economical method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and depletion of petroleum resources. It directly converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods. However, the high-temperature requirements for catalytic activity in PDH lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the equilibrium-limited nature of the reaction.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and growing in importance with new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and deactivation issues, prompting the development of eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is hailed as the most efficient process for on-purpose propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, specifically tackling issues with feedstock availability and process efficiency that limit conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, offering high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It excels with a high propane-to-propylene conversion rate, minimizing by-products. Modular implementation ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for high activity, selectivity, and regeneration, are optimal for PDH, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and its significant price difference with propylene, is a superior method for meeting global propylene demand. It overcomes the limitations of conventional production, like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, reducing energy consumption. Modular plant design enables flexible, localized production, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution that overcomes conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting escalating global propylene demand, addressing conventional method challenges. Its endothermic nature requires high-temperature conditions for optimal yields, underscoring the critical role of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and utilizes renewable green propane for enhanced sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, while ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, boosting propene yield. ODH-CO2, using CO2 as a soft oxidant, is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should prioritize selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, utilizing more abundant elements, to advance green propane dehydrogenation for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing the global propylene supply-demand gap. Its eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The development of Zn@S-1 catalysts, due to the scarcity and toxicity of current PDH catalyst components, shows good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using non-noble metal catalysts, achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing high efficiency and environmental friendliness. This addresses challenges in propylene production by offering high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, making it a promising method to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand challenges. It avoids the use of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration, making it environmentally superior. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, effectively tackling issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, addressing feedstock availability. Its direct conversion process is more efficient, tackling the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the propene supply-demand gap. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially achieving higher yields. PDH's ability to efficiently utilize shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds of light alkanes makes it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production. It addresses the growing global demand for propylene by improving energy efficiency, reducing CO2 and NOx emissions, and enhancing product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha and crude oil, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, especially as propane can be sourced from natural gas. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts makes it an attractive alternative, aligning with the need for more environmentally friendly processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering superior advantages over traditional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. By employing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with enhanced selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, reduces oil dependency and offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH enhance reactivity and stability, outperforming conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production, as highlighted by quote 4. Advances in hydraulic fracturing, mentioned in quote 5, further promote propane conversion through abundant shale gas extraction, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers improved feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It streamlines the process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods. A highly active and selective PDH catalyst further boosts efficiency and product quality, addressing the challenges of conventional production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its advantages in meeting global propylene demand, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has a longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global demand for propylene, offering improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, as highlighted by industry insights.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process using abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes conventional method limitations by improving feedstock availability and product selectivity, particularly through its ability to utilize increased propane supply from shale gas exploration, highlighting its efficiency and selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers efficient and selective propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. These catalysts provide onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH a viable alternative for meeting growing propylene demand where steam cracking's production cannot be increased. The development of novel catalysts for PDH aims to overcome issues like high costs and toxicity, underscoring its promise.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly addressing production limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH offers a more efficient and selective process, making it a promising solution to meet increasing propylene demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene, leveraging abundant propane reserves from shale gas. It outperforms conventional methods, which struggle with scalability due to Cr toxicity and Pt high cost. PDH's use of earth-abundant cobalt catalysts ensures long-term viability, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing global demand. It offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact by bypassing energy-intensive processes, making it advantageous over traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It addresses challenges in conventional methods by enabling easy retrofitting of existing facilities, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability, offers key advantages in propylene production. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high temperatures leading to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy ensures higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. It excels with cost-effective, non-toxic zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni in ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, boosting catalytic activity and stability. This addresses conventional production challenges by ensuring feedstock availability, achieving high conversion rates, and selectivity to propene under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH's adaptability and the widening gap between propylene and propane prices, coupled with the growing demand for propylene, make PDH a highly profitable solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, addressing feedstock availability. Its high-efficiency ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 ensures superior activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its endothermic nature, limited by thermodynamics, can closely match ideal outcomes through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity, aligning with commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane ensures availability, high conversion rates, and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It leverages large-scale shale gas exploitation to effectively supplement and meet the growing global demand for olefins. PDH's process efficiency and ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks address the challenges of feedstock availability and efficiency faced by conventional SC and FCC methods. This makes PDH a promising solution, specifically tailored to overcome limitations of traditional techniques, ensuring high selectivity toward olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive route compared to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas and refinery off-gases, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts under milder conditions than steam cracking. This direct conversion enhances efficiency and selectivity, minimizing unwanted byproducts and reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a sustainable and efficient solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, abundant due to shale gas and natural gas production, as a feedstock. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability, efforts are being made to improve catalyst resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and operation conditions, showcasing the technology's versatility and development.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers stability and selectivity advantages, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering improved feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, face challenges with high Pt costs and Cr-related environmental issues, necessitating the development of cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts to advance PDH and address limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene without steam or fluid catalytic cracking. Its single-reactor design boosts efficiency and selectivity, reducing energy consumption and costs. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher propylene yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a superior alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. It achieves high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted process results in cleaner production with minimal by-products, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and selective method for propylene production, addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing yields abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock. PDH's exclusive propylene production enhances selectivity, crucial for meeting the forecasted 2-3% annual growth in global propylene demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have made shale gas extraction cost-effective, reducing gas costs and favoring shale gas as a preferred feedstock. The abundance of cheap ethane has driven a shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., impacting propylene supply and prices. PDH, as an on-purpose technique, yields propylene with polymer-quality purity, offering a significant advantage over conventional methods, and its profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity in PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. This addresses the high cost and environmental impact issues faced by CrOx and Pt catalysts. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity highlights PDH's focus on product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, especially with Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in meeting global propylene demand by offering over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, overcoming conventional methods' inefficiencies. Enhanced by abundant propane from advanced extraction techniques, PDH is cost-effective and energy-efficient, making it a prime solution for growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, offering a cost-effective, single-feedstock process. Unlike traditional methods reliant on naphtha and coal cracking, PDH ensures a steady supply and enhances efficiency, making it a competitive alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing conventional challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly into high-value propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand. This process avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, improving efficiency and selectivity. Utilizing propane ensures feedstock availability and bypasses intermediate steps, reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct and economical route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative to dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially viable through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH directly converts propane to propylene. However, its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to side reactions that decrease propylene selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation, posing a significant challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, offering environmental benefits over oil-based methods. Its growing significance is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks, high costs, and deactivation issues, with Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds posing environmental concerns. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering efficiency and product selectivity. It improves on conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a superior choice for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, offering high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. Its high conversion rate minimizes by-products, while a modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods, enhanced by advancements in shale gas exploration. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, address limitations of noble metals, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price advantage over propylene, addressing the global demand for propylene production more effectively than conventional methods. It overcomes the limitations of depleting petroleum resources, ensuring sufficient supply with enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing propylene production's sustainability and reducing reliance on costly naphtha. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH achieves superior efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use, making it a cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, is critical in meeting the global demand for propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields with Pt or Cr-based catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane for sustainability. Unlike DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, ensures high selectivity but faces overoxidation risks. ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improving CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Prioritizing low-temperature CO2 activation in research could lead to lower energy PDH routes using green propane, transforming propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently addresses the growing propylene demand. It offers high propylene selectivity, produces valuable hydrogen, and is environmentally friendly and cost-effective, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Zn@S-1 catalysts, offers an alternative to petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing global demand. These catalysts achieve 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, showcasing PDH's advantages in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its innovative catalyst design, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion. The catalyst, encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, controls ZnO NP size and prevents loss at high temperatures, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, boasting environmental advantages and enhanced productivity. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH processes demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a viable solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process enhances efficiency and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route addresses energy consumption and demand-supply gaps, emerging as a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs than traditional methods. Utilizing propane from shale gas sources, PDH is a sustainable and cost-effective option, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently produces propylene with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing conventional method limitations. It directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, meeting growing global demand for this key raw material in various products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, reduces oil dependency and employs superior vanadium oxide catalysts for enhanced reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. This results in improved process efficiency, product quality, and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods, addressing global propylene demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the soaring global demand for propylene, which reached 116 million tons in 2020. Among alternatives, PDH is distinguished by its cost-effectiveness and lower environmental impact, making it the preferred method for producing high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane supply from shale gas, further enhancing PDH's feedstock advantage.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out by utilizing abundant shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. PDH improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, reducing costs and simplifying the process. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable PDH catalyst further boosts efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a promising method for propylene production, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensures longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, PDH emerges as a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing demand for propylene by offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Supported Pt-based catalysts, though active, require frequent regeneration due to coke deposition, highlighting the need for anti-sintering catalysts to enhance efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas as a plentiful feedstock underscores its superiority in meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, addressing the growing demand. It boasts onstream stability and high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant feedstock to boost process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging the earth's abundant cobalt, offer long-term viability for PDH, tackling the constraints of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. It bypasses energy-intensive conventional processes, offering greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of cost-effective propane and butane feedstocks, sourced from diverse petrochemical processes, offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods. Its easy integration into existing facilities makes PDH a cost-effective solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges. It notably minimizes byproducts, offering a more sustainable and economically viable alternative to traditional methods like steam cracking, which have lower yields. PDH's high selectivity towards propylene simplifies production, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the abundance of light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses conventional propylene production's limitations. Despite high energy needs and temperature challenges, the active site isolation strategy enhances selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand (Quote 2, 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by nickel, ensure cost-effectiveness and superior catalytic activity, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, directly targeting propylene without mixed hydrocarbons, unlike conventional methods that heavily rely on fossil fuels, emit high CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap propane feedstock, thanks to fracking, and its adaptable factories. Its profitability is enhanced by the price differential between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for propylene production, addressing feedstock availability. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, it ensures high activity, stability, and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2. Despite thermodynamic equilibrium limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates. Though energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by maximizing propane conversion in a single pass. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's efficient use of propane and high propylene yields with minimal by-products address challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike pathways such as MTO, FTO, and ODH, and leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. This technology specifically utilizes alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, making it a promising solution for propylene production, with high selectivity and efficiency in olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and increased yields, which reduces production costs, making it a sustainable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases to meet growing propylene demand. It operates at milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, and reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a superior choice due to its higher product selectivity and lower byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several advantages over conventional methods. The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas provides abundant and economical propane, a key feedstock for PDH. This technology simplifies reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates seamlessly with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making PDH a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. Challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, which are being addressed to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH's advantages include high stability and selectivity, achieved through the investigation of indium-based catalysts. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts to enhance PDH's efficiency, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH emerges as a key technology for propylene production. Challenges with conventional methods, including high Pt costs and Cr toxicity in PDH catalysts, necessitate the development of cost-effective, eco-friendly alternatives, crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. It leverages abundant propane, ensuring a stable supply compared to conventional methods. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process in a single reactor, which reduces costs. This efficiency and selectivity make PDH a promising option, particularly in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene, offers key advantages over conventional methods. It enhances feedstock availability by directly using propane, improves process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving higher propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective option is particularly advantageous in shale gas regions, meeting global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method without byproducts, offers enhanced selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing increases propane availability, making feedstock more affordable. Addressing conventional method limitations, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial as propylene demand is forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging cost-effective shale gas extraction to shift from naphtha to ethane feedstock. This shift has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability, which is heavily influenced by the propane-propylene price gap. PDH is an on-purpose technique, exclusively producing high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that yield mixed products. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefin production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane to propylene, enhancing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Its focus on a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene addresses environmental and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, boosts propylene production by inhibiting overoxidation and offering superior selectivity over conventional methods, directly tackling global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. Though specific feedstock availability advantages are not detailed, PDH offers a viable alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting growing global propylene demand. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH overcomes limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising approach.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    