Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It taps into abundant, low-cost raw materials from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady supply and cost-effectiveness, unlike traditional methods that struggle with market demand due to reliance on naphtha and coal cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, excels in propylene production, addressing feedstock availability and selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, impacts selectivity and catalyst stability due to side reactions. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources by utilizing abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions, making it advantageous for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical method for propylene production, addresses growing demand and petroleum scarcity. Commercially viable through Catofin and Oleflex processes, PDH efficiently converts propane to propylene. However, its high-temperature, endothermic nature facilitates side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, posing challenges for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and growing in importance with new plant constructions. Conventional catalysts, however, have issues like health risks from CrOx and Pt-based catalysts' cost and deactivation. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering efficiency and selectivity in production. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, disrupted by the shift in ethylene production methods. As an on-purpose approach, PDH effectively tackles limitations of conventional methods, making it a key technology in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant shale gas, achieving high process efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular nature offers flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH leverages shale gas exploration, offering a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. The exploration of non-noble metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, is highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for novel catalysts in the literature.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane and a significant price gap to meet growing propylene demand, unlike conventional methods constrained by depleting petroleum resources. This makes PDH an effective solution in the petrochemical industry, ensuring sufficient propylene supply without such limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, reducing reliance on costly naphtha. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts and energy use. PDH's modular design supports localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transport costs. This technology offers high yields, lower operating costs, and environmental advantages, making it a sustainable and economical solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting escalating global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. Its significance is underscored by the development of high-performance catalysts, crucial for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, ensuring high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses the growing global demand for propylene by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving selectivity compared to conventional methods. While ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 are alternatives, PDH outperforms in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activation. Research should prioritize abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to advance green propane-based propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand gap. It achieves high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, offering an eco-friendly and cost-efficient solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, presents an alternative for propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges. Amid platinum scarcity and chromium toxicity, zinc emerges as a viable, abundant, and non-toxic catalyst. The Zn@S-1 catalyst exhibits high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, showcasing its industrial potential for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology boasts high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane source. It directly converts propane to propylene efficiently, enhancing production. PDH surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing their energy-intensive nature and struggles to meet propylene demand. The non-oxidative PDH route is an efficient, emerging technology in current use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it more sustainable and cost-effective than conventional methods. PDH's ability to efficiently use shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds for higher propylene yields addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to feedstock-dependent traditional processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock for enhanced availability, superior efficiency, and reduced emissions compared to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts and addressing the escalating global demand for this critical chemical. Unlike traditional processes that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, emitting less CO2 and NOx. This makes PDH a preferred solution for meeting the growing need for propylene while mitigating environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective, eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. It boasts high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It features vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts. These enhancements, coupled with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional techniques. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further promoted the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing its utilization for high-value propylene production, as highlighted by Quote 4 and Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its key advantages are improved feedstock availability, higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, widely used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, underscoring ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, stands out for its ability to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Its compatibility with shale gas exploration ensures feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Stable Pt-based catalysts, resistant to sintering during cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency. PDH's benefits in feedstock flexibility and efficiency make it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising alternative for propene production, offering high selectivity and good stability. This addresses the growing demand for propene, particularly in scenarios where steam cracking cannot increase output. PDH provides a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, avoiding the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its efficient use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle with supply constraints and high fossil energy consumption. PDH improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet growing demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane reserves, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. It addresses challenges like feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, current PDH processes face issues with Cr toxicity and Pt costs. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are emerging as a solution, supporting long-term PDH industry growth.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steps. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, making it advantageous over traditional methods in meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane and butane, enabling easy facility upgrades. It boasts superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly tackling the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and higher yields, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the abundance of light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers a strategic advantage in propylene production. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, crucial for meeting global demand. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH employs an active site isolation strategy, proven effective in boosting alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, thus mitigating side reactions and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propylene production, addressing global demand. It excels in conversion rates and selectivity to propene, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, critical for PDH's superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high selectivity and lower emissions compared to conventional methods. The fracking boom has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' flexibility enhances profitability, leveraging the price gap between propylene and propane and the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, while ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhance efficiency and selectivity, yielding high propylene output and stability, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized catalysts and conditions. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity, and addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demands for olefins. Compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH, PDH provides process efficiency benefits and addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic reactions offer advantages over traditional methods, utilizing abundant alkanes from shale gas to enhance its role in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently produces propene from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, thus reducing costs. This sustainable method addresses conventional production challenges, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Its Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low byproduct formation. This process, more efficient at lower temperatures and pressures, reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity by minimizing unwanted byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with current technology. The surge in natural gas production, including shale gas, provides a steady and economical supply of propane, a critical feedstock for PDH. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, which can result in deep oxidation and COx production, PDH operates without oxidants, enhancing efficiency and selectivity for propylene. Challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, but ongoing efforts aim to improve these aspects, fully realizing PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the availability of low-cost shale gas-derived propane have renewed interest in PDH technologies. PDH specifically tackles challenges in conventional propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into indium-based catalysts for PDH shows promise for enhanced stability and selectivity, addressing drawbacks of existing technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology has emerged as a promising solution for production. Two commercial PDH processes, Oleflex and Catofin, use PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity pose challenges, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts to advance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly into propylene, offers higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution, especially in regions with abundant propane. PDH's efficiency and selectivity address the growing global demand for propylene, making it a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene, offering feedstock flexibility unlike conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology stands out for its exclusive propylene production, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective, a key advantage over conventional methods. PDH's focus on propylene boosts efficiency and selectivity, positioning it as a critical technology for future propylene production needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently favorable. PDH's on-purpose technique yields pure propylene, optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for converting abundant propane to propylene, offers advantages in feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Unlike industry-standard CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and raise environmental concerns, PDH's focus on a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene addresses product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficiently preventing overoxidation, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes and addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration in recycling reactions. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in extraction, make PDH a promising route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as the sole feedstock to produce propylene, offers a competitive edge over traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. This single-feed, single-product process simplifies production, enhancing efficiency and making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields and addresses conventional production challenges. Despite requiring high temperatures that can cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, directly converting low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity, thereby addressing challenges like decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving feedstock availability and process efficiency by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key alternative for propylene production, offering economic benefits and direct conversion from propane. It addresses the depletion of petroleum resources and is the most economical route for propylene, as highlighted by commercial processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, the PDH process, being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requires high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its use of cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote 1) and increasing contribution to overall production (Quote 2). It overcomes challenges faced by conventional methods, particularly issues with CrOx and Pt-based catalysts that pose health risks and high costs (Quotes 3-5). Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, offering a more sustainable and cost-effective solution (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production due to increased ethane availability. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant feedstock, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular nature offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, overcoming limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a viable solution for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures higher product selectivity and meets the growing global demand for propylene without relying on diminishing oil reserves.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure. PDH offers high yields and lower operating costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to traditional steam cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges by developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for meeting growing propylene demand and the endothermic nature of the reaction requiring high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. It avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH, and ODH-O2, which uses boron catalysts to prevent overoxidation, is promising. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires improved CO2 activation. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity and abundant elements, with research prioritizing low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently bridges the propylene supply-demand gap, converting abundant, inexpensive propane from shale gas into propylene with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. Its eco-friendly and cost-efficient attributes, along with the availability of propane, make PDH a preferred method in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand and offering a non-petroleum based solution. Zinc catalysts, exemplified by Zn-4@S-1, demonstrate good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable industrial process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, outperforming conventional methods. Its catalysts, free of non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, showcasing efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas for stable propane supply, is a promising method for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene efficiently, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods, which struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and represents an emerging technology in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane, abundant from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, achieving higher yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to feedstock-dependent and less efficient methods like steam cracking and FCC, improving availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and lower emissions compared to traditional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher product selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, which are high energy-consuming and increase CO2 and NOx emissions significantly. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced emissions make it a more sustainable and desirable process for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative to energy-intensive naphtha cracking for propylene production. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing common issues like coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability and reduces oil dependency. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through superior vanadium oxide catalysts, offering competitive performance, cost savings, and reduced toxicity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "With global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional techniques. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, as noted, make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted PDH's role by enhancing the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, effectively addressing the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising alternative, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves to produce propylene directly from propane. PDH surpasses conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking by offering better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process that enhances efficiency and selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst is critical for further improving PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. It excels in efficient CH bond activation, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental benefits. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalyst limitations underscore the need for advancements to fully harness PDH's potential, specifically targeting improved stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers key advantages in propylene production. It leverages increased propane supply, addressing feedstock availability challenges. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts improve process efficiency by remaining stable during cyclic coke combustion. PDH's enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity make it a promising method, outperforming conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, boasts high selectivity and onstream stability, making it a superior alternative for propylene production where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. Its ability to address process efficiency and product selectivity challenges, coupled with the development of novel catalysts to tackle high costs and toxicity, underscores its promise in fulfilling global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, surpassing conventional naphtha steam cracking methods. PDH's enhanced efficiency and selectivity make it a prime solution for fulfilling the growing need for propylene, a vital chemical component.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a viable solution. Conventional PDH processes face hurdles due to toxicity and high costs of catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, offer a promising alternative, leveraging Co's earth abundance for long-term viability, addressing the need for new catalysts and enhancing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, offers enhanced resource efficiency and lower environmental impact compared to traditional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane and butane, boosting propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its retrofitting capability ensures economic viability, effectively addressing challenges posed by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in converting propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable production, higher yields, and reduced byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable and economically viable solution, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock, thanks to shale gas and natural gas availability (Quote 2). It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by enhancing feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively addresses these challenges, improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH plants, being adaptable and capable of running various reactions, are highly profitable due to the price differential between propylene and propane, coupled with the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, to ensure feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, exemplifying PDH advancements, boost process efficiency and product selectivity with high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed for propylene production, is atom-economic, converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Optimized catalysts and conditions can closely achieve ideal conversion rates, despite the process being endothermic and equilibrium-limited. Increasing propane conversion, crucial for cost reduction, can be achieved by raising the reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, as per thermodynamic equilibrium principles. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and new catalyst exploration, making PDH a promising method that addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock for efficient, selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional methods, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation to meet growing global olefins demand. PDH's thermodynamic properties and alkane feedstock utilization provide process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. Its ability to selectively activate CH bonds while suppressing CC cleavage is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially in the PDH reaction, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and direct method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as feedstock, is advantageous for propylene production due to its high efficiency and selectivity. Compared to steam cracking, PDH operates under milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with fewer byproducts. This process ensures high product selectivity and lower energy consumption, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage results in high propylene selectivity and minimal formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation and COx production, making it more efficient and selective. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability issues, which are being addressed through research efforts to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research indicates efforts to further enhance PDH technology through various catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology has emerged as a promising method for production. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, PDH's potential is limited by the high cost of platinum and chromium toxicity in catalysts, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternatives to advance the technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor. This method addresses limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock, enhancing availability compared to conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in feedstock availability by utilizing abundant shale gas condensates rich in propane. Its proprietary process exclusively yields propylene, enhancing product selectivity. By optimizing reaction conditions, PDH minimizes side reactions, boosting propylene selectivity and productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction slashed gas costs, favoring ethane as a cost-effective feedstock, leading to a U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking. This shift impacted propylene supply and prices, creating opportunities for PDH, whose profitability is bolstered by the favorable propane-to-propylene price gap. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed olefins from conventional methods, optimized for polymer-quality olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, offers high catalytic activity and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods with high costs, environmental impacts, and rapid deactivation, PDH designs a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, preventing overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high propylene selectivity and stable regeneration, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. The plentiful and cost-effective propane, sourced from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, makes PDH a superior choice for addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a single-feedstock/single-product process that enhances efficiency. It utilizes abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and high product selectivity make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting low-cost propane to value-added propene. It directly tackles decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by efficiently converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not dependent on dwindling petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process requires high temperatures due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, which can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for the industrial success of PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts include health risks and high costs. Recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru/Rh NPs, address these limitations, reinforcing PDH's position as a promising propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the high global demand for propylene, efficiently addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The shift from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas disrupted the propylene balance, making on-purpose methods like PDH essential. PDH specifically tackles these challenges, offering an efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high propane-to-propylene conversion rate, minimizing by-products, and modular implementation for flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, with high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are crucial, addressing conventional limitations in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant propane and exploiting the price gap between propane and propylene. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations, like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, ensuring sufficient propylene production without oil dependency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's abundant propane use, higher efficiency, and selectivity result in lower costs and higher yields, offering a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-performance catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, effectively addresses the growing global demand for propylene. These catalysts are pivotal for propane dehydrogenation, especially considering the endothermic nature of the reaction, which necessitates high temperatures for optimal yields, making PDH a promising solution over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation, and boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts show promise in avoiding overoxidation. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene selectivity with H2 as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly, efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium drive the development of alternative catalysts, such as Zn@S-1, which exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97% at 853 K. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity make it a promising alternative for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, it achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing cost-efficiency and environmental friendliness without non-noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, achieving three times higher output under industrial conditions compared to conventional methods, while maintaining similar propene selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane source. It directly transforms propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, enhancing process and product selectivity. The non-oxidative PDH route is an emerging solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. This method addresses the challenges of conventional production by providing a more abundant and stable feedstock, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources, and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. It enhances feedstock availability, improves efficiency with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and boosts propylene selectivity, making it ideal for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking for propylene production. Utilizing a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, notably reducing issues of coke formation and sintering that are common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, offering competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, thus addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the most promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it superior to conventional techniques. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, further highlighting PDH's advantages in producing high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers advantages in feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity over traditional methods. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, reducing production costs and complexity. The development of a superior catalyst further boosts its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for propylene production, addressing global demand by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds over CC bonds, enhancing environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a leading alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the rising global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, it overcomes the limitations of Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a high-temperature process utilizing abundant shale gas resources, effectively meets the growing global demand for propylene. It leverages shale gas exploration for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are crucial for improving process efficiency during cyclic coke combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering a more direct and efficient route compared to conventional methods. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH processes show good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges of high costs and toxicity associated with current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its superior efficiency and selectivity make it a preferred method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology stands out as a viable solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with Cr toxicity and Pt high cost, by utilizing Co-based catalysts. Co's earth abundance suggests PDH's long-term viability for the industry, offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its direct conversion of propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steps. It excels in resource efficiency and has a lower environmental impact, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process optimization. Its retrofitting potential makes it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable method surpasses traditional oil-based processes in efficiency and yields, addressing global propylene demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability, enhances process efficiency and product selectivity. This addresses challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, is a cost-effective propylene production method, meeting global demand. Zinc-Ni catalysts boost catalytic activity and stability. PDH offers high propylene conversion and selectivity under mild conditions, overcoming conventional method limitations with widely available feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high efficiency and selectivity, unlike conventional fossil fuel-dependent methods with CO2 emissions and low propylene yield. Enabled by affordable propane feedstocks from fracking, PDH plants' adaptability and focus on propylene production make them highly profitable, given the propylene-propane price differential and the expanding market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 for high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thereby enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-efficient process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts achieve near-ideal conversion rates. Strategies to increase propane conversion offset PDH's high energy consumption, reducing costs. PDH enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods in meeting growing global demand. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits. The technology's ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its higher selectivity to propene leads to higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from shale gas, offers a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. It operates at milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds, improving efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources (4). It offers a simpler, less costly process with easier integration into existing technology (6). PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with conventional methods that require higher pressures and investments. Despite challenges like catalyst deactivation (2), PDH presents a more selective and efficient process for propylene production, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and thermodynamically stable products like COx that oxidative dehydrogenation processes encounter (7).", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology for propylene production is driven by the global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. PDH, including Catofin and Oleflex, faces challenges but indium-based catalysts show promise for high stability and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Ongoing research on various catalysts further enhances PDH's potential, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a solution, leveraging abundant propane from shale-gas deposits. It tackles feedstock availability and process efficiency issues. However, the high cost and toxicity of current catalysts in these processes pose limitations, underscoring the need for more cost-effective and eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts abundant propane into propylene, offering higher selectivity and efficiency than conventional methods. By eliminating the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, PDH simplifies the process, reduces energy consumption, and operates in a single reactor, lowering costs. This targeted conversion results in higher propylene yields and potentially lower operating expenses, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution, especially in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a preferred production method, utilizing abundant shale gas propane to address feedstock availability. PDH boasts higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cost-effective and ideal for shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, excels in addressing the escalating global demand for propylene. It benefits from abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, a result of hydraulic fracturing advancements (Quote 2). PDH's key advantage is its selectivity for producing only propylene, enhancing product purity (Quote 3). Optimizing reaction conditions and kinetics (Quote 4) further boosts propylene selectivity and productivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical for meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The transition from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, driving up prices and bolstering PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, exclusively produce high-purity olefins like propylene, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity, exemplified by the CoSiBeta catalyst, improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The pursuit of a green PDH catalyst enhances product selectivity and mitigates environmental impact, directly addressing challenges of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, avoiding overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, as evidenced by proprietary technology (Figure 1c).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts Co-based catalyst performance, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity and cost-effectiveness. It leverages the abundance and lower cost of propane, resulting from advancements in gas extraction, to overcome conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product, streamlining the process. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective supply of raw materials. PDH's lower production costs and simplified process make it a competitive alternative to conventional methods, which struggle to meet market demand due to reliance on naphtha and coal cracking, as highlighted by its single feed/product nature, wide raw material source, and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing conventional challenges. Its high-temperature operation impacts selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by improving process efficiency and product selectivity, without the drawbacks of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can impair catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical used in diverse products. As an economical and direct method, PDH converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to oil-dependent processes. However, the process's high temperature requirements can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts is critical for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading method for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and growing in prominence with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru/Rh NP, show promise in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, excelling in process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the disrupted feedstock availability caused by shifts in ethylene production methods, making it a key method for on-purpose propylene production. By tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, PDH emerges as a critical technology in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, address the need for cost-effective and non-toxic alternatives, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a viable solution for the increasing global need for propylene, utilizing the abundant propane supply and capitalizing on the significant price differential between propane and propylene. Unlike traditional methods, which are constrained by dwindling petroleum resources, PDH ensures adequate propylene production, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. This results in higher yields and lower costs, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution. Its scalability enhances market adaptability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting escalating global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, necessitates advanced catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and addresses conventional method challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative methods, PDH avoids coke formation. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts provide high selectivity and activity, while CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity, utilizing more abundant elements, and prioritizing low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the growing global demand for propylene. It boasts high selectivity to propylene and produces valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a significant alternative for non-petroleum based propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations with enhanced efficiency and selectivity. Zinc, as an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative, is explored for PDH catalysts, with Zn@S-1 showing good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, supporting industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. A critical hurdle is the development of cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts with high activity, selectivity, and stability. An innovative method involves encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, showcasing PDH's capability to address the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, boasting environmental advantages by avoiding toxic substances and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH exhibits three times higher propene productivity at comparable selectivity relative to a standard KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions, directly addressing production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process is efficient, increasing production rates. PDH's non-oxidative route provides process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and can lead to demand-supply gaps. As an emerging technology, PDH effectively addresses the challenges of meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, improving efficiency and selectivity. PDH's use of shale gas resources results in higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods, making it a promising approach to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock for enhanced availability, superior efficiency, and lower emissions compared to conventional methods. Unlike traditional processes dependent on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH uses widely available propane from natural gas. It is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, emitting less CO2 and NOx. PDH offers direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with Sn promoter, offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional propylene production methods. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus addressing catalyst deactivation issues faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages shale gas for enhanced feedstock availability, reducing oil dependence. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, with vanadium oxide catalysts offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These advantages make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, highlights the superiority of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. PDH addresses limitations of conventional methods by offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. As propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020, PDH emerged as the most promising pathway due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further promoted the conversion of low-valued propane, reinforcing PDH's pivotal role in meeting high-value propylene production needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers superior feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity over traditional methods like steam cracking. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable PDH catalyst further boosts its efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution for meeting the increasing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, surpassing traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its improved efficiency and selectivity, is poised to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outshining conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, though widely used, have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, underscoring PDH's potential for enhanced performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing demand for propylene by efficiently converting propane at high temperatures. It offers advantages in feedstock availability and process efficiency, highlighting its superiority over conventional methods. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, PDH's ability to leverage shale gas for propylene production underscores its key benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its onstream stability and high selectivity, is a promising alternative for propene production, especially where steam cracking is insufficient. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. Novel catalyst development aims to further enhance PDH's advantages by tackling high costs and toxicity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst growing global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane, offers key advantages over conventional methods. It operates efficiently at high temperatures using non-limiting catalysts, unlike toxic Cr and expensive Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts, particularly promising, ensure long-term industry viability due to Co's earth abundance, effectively addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging cost-effective propane and butane, easily integrating into existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively tackling the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high selectivity, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. This sustainable method offers economic viability, minimized byproducts, and higher yields compared to traditional oil-based methods, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key solution for propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's challenges are mitigated by the active site isolation strategy, affirming its promise in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, well-suited to meet global demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced zinc-based catalysts further improve catalytic activity and stability, solidifying PDH's position as a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely cheap, enhancing the technology's profitability due to the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, addresses feedstock availability. Its ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 boosts activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal conversion rates under optimized conditions. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's high efficiency and selectivity, coupled with propane's availability, make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a strategic advantage in propylene production, serving as a vital supplement to conventional methods in meeting the escalating global demand for olefins. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins, compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, and its leverage of abundant shale gas resources, directly address challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits, while the activation of CH bonds over CC bonds ensures high selectivity towards olefins, crucial for effective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, making it a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene selectivity and efficiency, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking. It directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts, and improves process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy use and emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, abundant due to natural gas production, serves as a steady feedstock. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency over high-pressure processes. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, with commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR using distinct catalysts and pressures. Efforts focus on improving catalyst resistance to coke and protecting active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, for propylene production is driven by growing global demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. Challenges, including high costs and environmental impacts, prompt research into indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity. Ongoing investigations into diverse catalysts reflect efforts to enhance PDH technology, addressing conventional production limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, notably Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, lead the way. However, the quest for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for PDH advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy use. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and cuts costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for regions with ample propane, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity. This method is cleaner and more targeted than traditional naphtha or oil-based processes, making it sustainable and cost-effective, particularly in shale-rich areas. PDH's efficiency and selectivity minimize by-product formation, meeting propylene demand while reducing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key solution. PDH directly produces propylene, utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates. This technology's focus on propylene boosts selectivity and productivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical for future production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the price gap between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing CoSiBeta catalysts, excels in catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly regarding high-cost CrOx and Pt catalysts that have environmental impacts and fast deactivation. PDH's focus on green and low-cost catalysis underscores its solution to product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, curbs overoxidation issues common in ODH, enhancing efficiency. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its high performance and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high selectivity, overcoming conventional methods' issues of high energy use and low selectivity. Propane's abundance and lower cost, due to shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction advancements, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet rising propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging propane as a single feedstock for enhanced efficiency. Abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensure a steady, cost-effective supply, making PDH a competitive choice in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to issues like coking and particle sintering.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and affordable propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes propane, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. This process avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, improving catalyst activity and stability. PDH enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propene, minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, economical route from propane, crucial as petroleum resources dwindle. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH faces challenges in developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions, essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental and efficiency advantages for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based cracking. Its growing significance is evident in new plant constructions. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health and cost drawbacks, respectively. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, enhance activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets the high demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production, as recognized in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production with minimal by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, tackling the global demand and issues with conventional methods. It capitalizes on abundant propane and the price disparity between propane and propylene, ensuring sufficient supply without relying on dwindling petroleum. Unlike steam cracking and FCC, PDH maintains process efficiency and product selectivity, meeting market needs effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, reducing reliance on costly naphtha. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy use, leading to reduced operating costs and increased yields. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out due to its endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures for optimal yields. The development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts is pivotal, addressing limitations in conventional production methods, particularly in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts, and addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages renewable green propane for sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activity. Research on lower energy routes to propene using green propane could transform the manufacturing of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene selectivity with hydrogen as a by-product, offering eco-friendly and efficient production that outperforms conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Zn@S-1 catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it a viable solution. Zinc's non-toxicity and earth abundance enhance PDH's industrial relevance, overcoming limitations of platinum scarcity and chromium toxicity in current catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high catalyst activity, selectivity, and stability, critical for process efficiency and product selectivity. Encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a greener alternative for propylene production, surpassing conventional methods' limitations. It notably avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and chlorine use. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at comparable selectivity, as evidenced in industrial conditions tests against a standard KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a stable and cost-effective propane source from abundant natural gas and shale gas, addressing feedstock availability. Its direct conversion to propylene is more efficient, tackling the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers improved feedstock availability. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH efficiently utilizes shale gas resources, achieving higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to feedstock-dependent traditional methods. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it an environmentally friendly process. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts surpasses traditional methods in product selectivity, crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. By employing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. Its use of vanadium oxide catalysts boosts reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional techniques. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing advancements, PDH benefits from abundant shale gas-derived propane, a critical feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its advantages over traditional methods like steam cracking include better feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and improved selectivity. Developing a selective and durable catalyst could further enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and superior product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts significantly boost propylene yield and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods. The technology also features efficient CH bond activation and prolonged reactive longevity, contributing to environmental advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to meet global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and selectivity issues highlight the need for catalyst improvement in this promising method.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers a significant feedstock advantage for propylene production. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by leveraging increased propane supply, enhancing product selectivity and process optimization. Stable Pt-based catalysts, resistant to deactivation by coke deposition, are crucial for improving PDH's process efficiency during cyclic coke combustion.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing conventional propylene production challenges. It's a direct and efficient route for propene production, especially when demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. The development of novel catalysts for PDH promises to enhance efficiency and mitigate the high cost and toxicity issues of current industrial catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, using abundant propane, reduces by-products and enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and increased propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology stands out as a sustainable solution. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, offering improved process efficiency and product selectivity. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH, leveraging Co's earth abundance, ensure long-term sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering strategic advantages over traditional methods. It addresses global demand for propylene by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, while reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane, enhancing propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It addresses challenges by utilizing readily available feedstock and enabling easy retrofitting of existing facilities, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the shift to light alkanes, enhancing feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite being energy-intensive and facing side reactions at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by its success in tackling challenges posed by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, improve activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, enhancing profitability due to the price disparity between propylene and propane, and the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, addresses feedstock availability challenges. Efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering superior catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, achieving near-ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion through strategic temperature and pressure adjustments. This technology addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with minimal by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods in light of growing global demand. Leveraging the abundant alkanes in shale gas, PDH specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it advantageous over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. Its unique property of direct dehydrogenation ensures high product selectivity, addressing limitations faced by conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct method for producing propene from propane, offering higher selectivity and increased yields, which reduces costs. This makes PDH an efficient route for propene production from abundant feedstocks like natural gas and refinery off-gases, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for feedstock, achieving high propylene yields with reduced byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and lowering energy use. Pt-based catalysts in PDH ensure high propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage, directly converting propane to propylene with minimized unwanted byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. Propane, an economical feedstock, is abundant due to the boom in natural gas and shale gas production. Unlike conventional methods requiring high pressures, PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but ongoing efforts aim to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology is due to the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research into a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, further enhances PDH technology, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, tackling issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, though effective, are constrained by high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, underscoring the need for more sustainable and cost-effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers key advantages over conventional methods by utilizing a more abundant feedstock, achieving higher propylene selectivity, and consuming less energy. This streamlined process in a single reactor makes PDH cost-effective and sustainable, particularly in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene and overcoming limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene, surpassing traditional naphtha or oil-based methods in efficiency and selectivity. PDH's high conversion rates and targeted production process meet growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, directly addressing the escalating global demand. It excels by exclusively producing propylene, enhancing selectivity, and benefiting from abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock due to hydraulic fracturing. Projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, propylene demand will be met more efficiently by PDH's superior selectivity and productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as a solution, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has enabled cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity propylene, optimizing olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It outperforms conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, the need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity highlights PDH's ability to overcome challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior product purity with high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in C3H6 selectivity and regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to these advantages, underscoring PDH's superiority in selectivity and anti-coke stability over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. Its high propylene selectivity and use of cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction make it superior to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a streamlined process with propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the exclusive product, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Unconventional gas sources provide abundant light alkanes, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply of raw materials. PDH's lower costs and single-product focus make it a competitive solution to meet global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, affects C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with adjustable properties, enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, preserving catalyst activity and stability. This technology addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising and economical route for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene. It addresses the growing global demand and depletion of petroleum resources, offering a shorter and more cost-effective method than conventional processes. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH facilitates side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its cleaner natural gas feedstock, offering environmental advantages over oil-based methods. Its role is expanding, evident in new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based ones are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, though needing metal oxide promotion and Ru/Rh NP support, provide a sustainable solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out as a superior solution, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key method for meeting the high demand for propylene. Recognized for its efficiency, PDH is pivotal in on-purpose propylene production, balancing the disrupted equilibrium caused by the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH an efficient alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and its significant price difference with propylene, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhances propylene production efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Its modular plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing global demand and overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the need for catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, achieves high spacetime yield and avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. ODH-O2, utilizing boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, offering a promising alternative. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, requires catalysts with higher CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and exploring more abundant elements, with a priority on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene selectivity and eco-friendly, cost-efficient production, addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity, thus narrowing the global propylene supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Zinc, as an earth-abundant alternative, is explored due to the scarcity and toxicity issues of current catalysts. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at high temperatures, and possess regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's potential to improve feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing advanced catalysts, excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity, thus addressing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, boasting environmental benefits and enhanced efficiency. The ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, directly tackling the challenges of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant feedstocks for cost-effective propane supply, directly converting propane to propylene with higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods. Its non-oxidative process is more efficient, addressing energy-intensive challenges and demand-supply gaps, making it a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers key advantages in propylene production. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene, compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizes shale gas resources and selectively activates CH bonds for higher propylene yields, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by converting propane to propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability, directly addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Unlike steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are limited by naphtha and crude oil, PDH uses abundant propane from natural gas. This makes PDH more energy-efficient and reduces CO2 and NOx emissions, aligning with sustainability goals. PDH also boasts higher selectivity for propylene, converting propane directly with minimal byproducts, surpassing conventional methods in product purity and yield.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, excelling in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions reduction compared to traditional naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, offers a competitive edge in propylene production. It reduces dependency on oil-based sources and employs superior vanadium oxide catalysts, enhancing reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional methods. This makes PDH a cost-effective, less toxic solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, a key industrial component, faces high demand. Among methods like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it ideal for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing boost propane supply, enhancing PDH's role in converting low-valued propane into a valuable resource.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane, offers a more direct and potentially cost-effective method for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. The focus on a selective and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's advantages, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensuring environmental friendliness and longer reactive longevity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to meet rising global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, central to PDH, face issues of short-term stability and subpar propylene selectivity, a critical challenge in its application.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources to meet growing propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability. It faces challenges with coke deposition on platinum-based catalysts, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are crucial for improving process efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas highlights its superiority in feedstock availability and process efficiency for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers onstream stability and high selectivity, making it advantageous for propene production where steam cracking cannot meet demand. This addresses challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. Novel catalyst development aims to overcome issues like high platinum prices and chromium toxicity, further enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly tackling the limitations of conventional methods. As demand for propylene grows, PDH's efficiency and selectivity in production become increasingly advantageous, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology is gaining prominence. Conventional methods using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts are limited by toxicity and cost. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to Co's earth abundance, offer a promising alternative, addressing the need for new catalysts in the PDH industry, thus making PDH a more efficient and sustainable method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking. It's more resourceful and environmentally friendly than traditional methods, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane, enhancing process efficiency and selectivity for propylene. Its retrofit capability into existing facilities makes it a viable solution to meet the rising global demand, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, ensures stable propylene production. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and outperforming steam cracking in energy efficiency and yield, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to abundant light alkanes over naphtha, emerges as a key solution for propylene production. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and reaction temperatures that can cause cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making it a viable option for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with nickel, ensure lower cost, nontoxicity, and improved catalytic activity for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas, making it highly profitable given the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, addressing feedstock availability, and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, directly tackling challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, making it a promising method. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to conventional methods, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. PDH's thermodynamically limited and endothermic reactions improve process efficiency over traditional methods. The technology addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, offering flexibility in feedstock. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH directly convert propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts, improving efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. This direct conversion results in higher product selectivity with less hydrogen and carbon monoxide formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane from abundant natural gas and shale gas production serves as a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with complex and costly conventional methods. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, with ongoing efforts to improve resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation. Commercial PDH processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use different catalysts and pressures, showcasing versatility. PDH's operation without oxidants avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are gaining prominence due to their potential to address high costs and environmental impact in propylene production. The low cost of propane from shale gas has made PDH a promising method, especially as research on indium-based catalysts shows their potential for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing efforts to improve PDH technology involve investigating various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to enhance efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant propane reserves from shale-gas deposits. Two primary PDH processes exist, but high Pt costs and Cr toxicity limit development. Developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts is key for PDH's advancement, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock to overcome limitations of conventional methods. It offers higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified single-reactor process, reducing costs and enhancing sustainability. Particularly advantageous in propane-rich regions, PDH's efficiency and product selectivity make it a cost-effective and energy-efficient choice for increased propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, enhancing feedstock availability compared to conventional methods using naphtha or heavier oil. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method, particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, offers a cleaner, more targeted production process that meets increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in addressing the escalating global demand for propylene. Its key advantage lies in exclusively producing propylene, enhancing product selectivity. The abundance of cost-effective feedstock, facilitated by hydraulic fracturing, further amplifies PDH's efficiency. With a projected 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's specialized process is crucial for future supply.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages over conventional methods. Enhanced shale gas extraction via fracking has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the US has decreased propylene output, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current favorable propane-propylene price gap. Its on-purpose nature yields pure propylene, unlike the mixed olefin outputs from conventional methods, optimizing for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting abundant propane into propylene while addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH superior to conventional methods. The urgent need for a green, affordable, and highly reactive PDH catalyst highlights its role in overcoming production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, effectively preventing overoxidation, and boasting superior propylene selectivity, thus addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure anti-coke stability, making PDH advantageous for feedstock flexibility and addressing the challenges of conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Propane's abundance and lower cost, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH offers lower production costs than traditional methods, making it a competitive solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being an endothermic process with high-temperature issues like coking and particle sintering, PDH's nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a direct, economical, and efficient route from propane, independent of petroleum. Commercially viable through Catofin and Oleflex, PDH addresses conventional method limitations by being the shortest and most cost-effective path. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is critical for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking for propylene production. Its growing role, marked by new plant constructions, addresses the global demand. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, overcome these challenges, enhancing PDH's capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an efficient method for propylene production compared to conventional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas as feedstock, offers high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design allows flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. The use of novel vanadium-based catalysts enhances PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene, is a promising solution to meet escalating global propylene demand. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, as it is not constrained by depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, converting propane directly to propylene with lower energy consumption and minimal byproducts. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs. This technology ensures higher propylene yields and lower operating costs, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene while addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene due to its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, which are essential for the propane dehydrogenation reaction. The high-temperature requirement ensures better process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability by utilizing renewable green propane, a sustainable alternative to non-renewable sources. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing the global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, meets global demand for propylene. Zinc, especially in Zn@S-1 catalysts, shows promise as an alternative, with good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative for propene production, avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and chlorine use for regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances this advantage, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under relevant conditions, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective feedstock, enhancing propylene production. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH boosts efficiency and selectivity, overcoming the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gaps of conventional methods. This non-oxidative route is more efficient, emerging as a leading technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, enhancing feedstock availability. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially offering higher yields than conventional methods. Utilizing propane from shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, addresses growing propylene demand more efficiently and sustainably than conventional oil-based methods. It offers higher selectivity for propylene, reducing byproducts, and is more energy-efficient with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, making it an environmentally friendly alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking. It utilizes a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, achieving high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability. This minimizes issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional processes, making PDH a superior method.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich areas, offering better feedstock availability than oil-based methods. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outperform traditional Pt and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration, enhancing process efficiency and product quality. These advancements make PDH cost-effective, less toxic, and a promising solution to meet rising global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a preferred method for production, offering cost-effectiveness and reduced environmental impact over alternatives like MTP and WGSR. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased low-valued propane availability from shale gas, further enhancing PDH's conversion and utilization capabilities, making it a crucial pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for propylene production, offering better feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It streamlines the process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods. The development of a selective and durable PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By efficiently activating CH bonds and having longer reactive longevity, PDH is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, central to PDH, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, underscoring persistent challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers a significant advantage over conventional propylene production methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The technology's ability to convert propane at high temperatures, supported by platinum-based catalysts, is crucial. Stable anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are desired to withstand cyclic coke combustion, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it a direct and efficient method for propene production from propane. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking, particularly in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods, making it a viable alternative to meet growing demands without the constraints of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, is a strategic choice for meeting global propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods involving toxic chromium and costly platinum. Cobalt's abundance ensures PDH's long-term viability, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges. By skipping energy-intensive steps, PDH enhances efficiency and resource use, reducing environmental impact, making it ideal for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, offering higher propylene selectivity and efficiency. It addresses conventional method challenges by not requiring significant investment as existing facilities can be readily adapted, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using plentiful propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring a stable supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to abundant light alkanes, addresses conventional propylene production limitations. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and facing challenges with high temperatures that affect alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy mitigates these issues, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, cost-effective and non-toxic, are pivotal in PDH, with Ni addition to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhancing catalytic activity and stability. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted approach that avoids the fossil fuel dependency, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity issues of conventional methods. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, especially considering the price gap between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas feedstock, addressing availability issues. It employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, boosting catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity. This surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Optimized catalysts and conditions enable PDH to closely achieve ideal conversion rates, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures can enhance propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, effectively supplementing conventional methods to meet escalating global olefin demands. It exploits shale gas feedstock, offering unparalleled selectivity to olefins over alternatives like MTO, FTO, and ODH. PDH's thermodynamically limited, endothermic nature enhances efficiency, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. This makes PDH a promising solution, specifically tailored to the needs of modern propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which leads to higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive route to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, utilizing propane from abundant sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes boost propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but ongoing efforts aim to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into diverse catalysts indicates continuous efforts to enhance PDH technology's efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a promising method for propylene production. These processes offer advantages over conventional methods by utilizing propane as a feedstock, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt in Oleflex and Cr toxicity in Catofin limit PDH's potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts to further improve process efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and stable propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. It simplifies the process by operating in a single reactor, reducing costs and making it a sustainable, cost-effective alternative, particularly in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's design for higher efficiency and selectivity results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting abundant low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, enhancing feedstock availability. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly yields propylene with high selectivity, thanks to hydraulic fracturing that ensures plentiful and cost-effective propane feedstock. Propylene demand is forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, highlighting PDH's efficiency and relevance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing (quote 2) has slashed gas costs (quote 3), favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane (quote 4) has reduced propylene supply, escalating its price (quote 5), and PDH's profitability is amplified by the propane-propylene price gap (quote 6). PDH's on-purpose technique (quote 7) yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, addressing the need for targeted production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts high activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and environmentally impactful, CoSiBeta supports a green and cost-effective PDH process, emphasizing high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, tackling environmental challenges and product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging shale gas for abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity that distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering high selectivity and addressing limitations of conventional methods. Propane, PDH's feedstock, is abundant and cost-effective due to shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making PDH an efficient choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    