Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and competitive edge make it a superior choice over traditional methods, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and facing issues like coking, nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, economical route from propane to propylene, crucial for a range of products as noted in quote [1]. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex (quote [3]), PDH tackles the scarcity of petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature requirement for catalytic activity (over 550 C) leads to side reactions and low propylene selectivity, as mentioned in quote [6], making catalyst efficiency and stability under severe conditions a key challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, and its growing role is evident in new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an efficient method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency. As conventional methods struggle with the balance disrupted by ethane and shale gas ethylene production, PDH emerges as a promising solution, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene and minimized by-product formation. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As an on-purpose non-oxidative process, PDH has gained attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It is considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The literature highlights the need for novel non-noble metal-based catalysts, with vanadium-based catalysts emerging as a promising choice due to their high activity, selectivity for propylene, and good regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method specifically tackles the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency due to depleting petroleum resources, by providing a sustainable and efficient alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, lowering energy consumption and costs. Its modular plant implementation allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's use of propane, which is abundant and stable in supply, and its higher propylene yields compared to steam cracking, make it a more economically and environmentally viable option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in addressing the growing global demand for propylene, as it requires developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity due to the endothermic nature of the reaction, which necessitates high temperatures for high yields. This approach specifically tackles the challenges of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, limits overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap by converting abundant and cheap propane from shale gas into propylene with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process offers an attractive alternative to conventional methods, utilizing widely available feedstock and achieving high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. Zinc, as a non-toxic and earth-abundant metal, is a promising alternative catalyst, overcoming the limitations of scarcity and toxicity associated with current PDH catalysts. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after 6 hours, demonstrating PDH's efficiency and selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which often result in energy-intensive processes and a demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is considered more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by offering advantages over conventional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher energy efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity for propylene. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, which are high energy-consuming and increase contaminants, PDH offers a more sustainable and environmentally friendly process. PDH specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing propane, which is more widely available and can be sourced from natural gas, improving feedstock availability. The process is more energy-efficient, produces fewer emissions, and offers higher product selectivity for propylene, making it the most promising method for meeting the growing global demand for this chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, key issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability over conventional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in traditional plants, indicating higher process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitiveness, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a superior solution for production, outshining conventional methods in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. With a 2020 demand of around 116 million tons, PDH, alongside alternatives like MTP and WGSR, garners attention. However, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-cost propane from abundant shale gas, further enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering better feedstock availability from abundant propane sourced from shale gas reserves. It potentially reduces production costs and enhances process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. It specifically addresses challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a promising method compared to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability issues and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained renewed interest due to the increased availability of propane from shale gas exploration. This makes PDH advantageous for utilizing abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts are active for PDH but face challenges with coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts stable during cyclic coke combustion are desired to improve process efficiency and product selectivity, as coke deposition is thermodynamically inevitable under PDH conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an attractive alternative for propylene production, especially due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane, suggesting PDH offers a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical component in various chemical manufacturing processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH technology is gaining attention. Conventional methods, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a promising solution, with Co's earth abundance supporting long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, easily sourced from petrochemical processes, and its ability to retrofit existing facilities, reducing investment. It specifically addresses conventional method challenges by offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and cost-effective than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the abundance of shale gas and natural gas to shift from naphtha to light alkanes as feedstock. This addresses conventional method challenges, notably feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and high reaction temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, addresses challenges in propylene production by offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance activity and stability, making PDH a cost-effective and nontoxic alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from the abundance of cheap propane feedstock, thanks to fracking technology, making it highly adjustable and profitable, especially considering the growing demand for propylene and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. As an atom-economic reaction, it addresses the limitations of conventional methods by maximizing feedstock utilization. PDH's endothermic nature and thermodynamic equilibrium constraints are mitigated through optimized conditions and appropriate catalysts, closely achieving ideal results. To enhance propane conversion, increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures are effective strategies. This process, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by improving single-pass conversion. PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically addresses these issues, making it a promising method for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane as feedstock. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts and improving process efficiency through lower temperatures and pressures, potentially reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas production. It offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology compared to conventional methods. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. However, challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability. PDH's advantage lies in its ability to directly dehydrogenate propane without the need for oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high Pt cost and Cr environmental impact, PDH technologies are being optimized with the investigation of indium-based catalysts, known for high stability and selectivity, among other materials like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based substances and nanocarbon catalysts. This research addresses the challenges of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have spotlighted catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising method for propylene production. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Two primary PDH technologies exist: the Oleflex process using PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts pose significant challenges, necessitating the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its direct conversion of propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil used in conventional methods. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor setup enhances efficiency and sustainability, making it a cost-effective option for meeting global propylene demand, especially in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, outperforming traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane as a feedstock, offering greater feedstock availability. It also boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This makes PDH a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner option for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts product selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Propylene demand is forecasted to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, underscoring the significance of efficient production technologies.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Demand for chemical building blocks, including propylene, has risen in major markets except the Eurozone, affected by economic downturns. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for fuels and chemicals. The abundance of cheap ethane has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price, thus favoring PDH technology. PDH's profitability is linked to the price gap between propane and propylene, currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins, not mixed products, and are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH enhance process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact, underscoring the need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering high propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, as evidenced by the quotes: (1) shale gas extraction yields cheap propane; (2) PDH curbs ODH's overoxidation; (3) PDH's selectivity distinguishes it from hybrid MTO and FTO products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalyst contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' issues of high energy consumption and low selectivity. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources like shale, ensures a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet market demand due to limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but faces issues like coking and sintering due to its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane to high-value propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane into propene, improving efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route that isn't reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology to enhance catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks, including health risks and high costs. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional production methods, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high propane-to-propylene conversion rates, and selectivity that minimizes by-products. Its modular design allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency and low-cost alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle to meet growing demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on scarce oil, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This results in lower operating costs, higher yields, and a more sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method compared to conventional steam cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high-performance catalysts, which are essential for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields. This addresses the growing global demand for propene and improves process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH-O2) using boron catalysts shows promise by limiting overoxidation. However, CO2-soft oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH-CO2) lags in propene yield. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 intrinsic activity, focusing on abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several key advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes cheap and widely available propane from shale gas, ensuring a stable feedstock supply. PDH achieves high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient. This technology addresses the supply-demand gap by providing an alternative production method that is both sustainable and economically viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. The Zn@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it a promising alternative. The scarcity of platinum and the toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, as a viable option for PDH catalysts, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of ZnO-based catalysts further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under relevant industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and selective, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is considered more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by potentially utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's ability to efficiently utilize shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds of light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, sourced from natural gas, improving feedstock availability. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. It offers higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, unlike complex traditional methods. This makes PDH a sustainable and efficient alternative to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional propylene production methods, which are energy-intensive and emit high CO2 levels. Using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources to enhance feedstock availability. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, particularly through the use of vanadium oxide catalysts, which exhibit superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants. This highlights PDH's competitive performance, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. Conventional techniques struggle to meet the 116 million tons demand seen in 2020. While alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) are considered, PDH stands out for its efficiency and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, further enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include enhanced feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs due to shale gas use, and a more direct process for propylene production, improving efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The focus on developing a high-performance PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the commonly used Pt-based catalysts in PDH have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, indicating a need for catalyst improvement to fully realize PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though susceptible to deactivation by coke deposition, are crucial for PDH. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration are desired. PDH's relevance has increased with abundant propane supply from shale gas exploration, indicating its potential in utilizing these resources for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH's potential advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet increasing demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key technology. Conventional PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces hurdles due to Cr toxicity and Pt costs, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts, with their earth abundance and promising PDH performance, offer a sustainable solution, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and aligning with long-term industry needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes like steam cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, produced by various petrochemical processes, and its compatibility with existing facilities, requiring minimal investment for retrofitting. It specifically addresses conventional method challenges by offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene production, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to side reactions like cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these challenges, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propylene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts with Ni introduction enhance catalytic activity and stability, further improving process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap. PDH's adaptability to run various reactions and the growing demand for propylene, coupled with the price difference between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. As an atom-economic reaction, it closely approaches ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and improving process efficiency. Despite being energy-intensive, increasing single-pass propane conversion reduces costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly choice.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH offers higher product selectivity with minimal formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation issues and thermodynamically stable COx production. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. The process's efficiency and selectivity make it superior to conventional methods, addressing their limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges like high costs and environmental impacts, prompting research into indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity. Renewed interest in PDH stems from the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Ongoing investigations into various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, highlight efforts to optimize PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, limiting their development. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. PDH has higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The process is simplified by being performed in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's higher product selectivity and process efficiency make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield. PDH's sustainability and cost-effectiveness, especially in shale gas-rich regions, make it a cleaner, more targeted production process, minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution for direct propylene production. Its advantage lies in producing propylene exclusively, enhancing product selectivity. The abundance of propane, a key feedstock, from shale gas condensates due to hydraulic fracturing technology ensures cost-effectiveness and availability. This proprietary method, addressing conventional production limitations, is pivotal for meeting future propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Market demand for chemical building blocks, like propylene, has steadily increased, except in the Eurozone due to economic downturns. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enabled cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The abundance of cheap natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, has led to a shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., impacting propylene supply and prices. This scenario creates opportunities for PDH, which is highly profitable due to the price differential between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, unlike conventional methods, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, offers high catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. This addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and environmental impact, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas-derived propane, which ensures feedstock availability. It enhances process efficiency by preventing overoxidation, a common issue in ODH. PDH's high propylene selectivity sets it apart from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity that surpasses conventional methods, which struggle with high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the exclusive product. This efficiency is bolstered by the abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs and high product selectivity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. As an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, PDH faces issues like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic advantages for propylene production by converting low-cost propane directly into propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity. This process improves efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability. As a direct conversion process from propane to propylene, PDH is commercially viable and less reliant on depleting petroleum resources. However, the process's endothermic nature and high-temperature requirements lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH catalysts with enhanced selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency. Unlike oil-based cracking, PDH uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have issues, with CrOx posing health risks and Pt-based catalysts being costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process for meeting the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing a solution to the disrupted balance in feedstock availability caused by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas. PDH emerges as a key method for on-purpose propylene production, specifically tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. This modular technology allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs compared to conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts, with high activity and selectivity for propylene and good regeneration ability, enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising alternative to traditional propylene production routes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, as it leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method specifically addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are unable to meet market demand due to the depletion of petroleum resources. By utilizing propane as a feedstock, PDH ensures process efficiency and product selectivity, making it an effective alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and scarce naphtha. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. PDH's modular plants offer flexibility and lower transportation costs, making it economically and environmentally superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to the growing demand for propene and the endothermic nature of the reaction, which necessitates high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for optimal yields at high temperatures. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yield, typically over Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. It can utilize renewable green propane, gaining traction as a sustainable feedstock. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, is promising but can lead to overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the global supply-demand gap. It leverages cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, offers a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity make it a superior choice over scarce and toxic Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity at 853 K, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's advantages in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. It directly transforms propane to propylene efficiently, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the demand-supply gap of propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has emerged as a leading technology, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in addressing the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This makes it more abundant and stable in supply compared to naphtha used in traditional methods. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. This results in higher propylene yields and selectivity, making PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, improves process efficiency, and boosts product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. It specifically addresses challenges by improving feedstock availability, energy consumption, and product selectivity for propylene, making it a sustainable and attractive alternative to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it uses propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, indicating higher process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits, combined with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity of the catalysts, make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional techniques. The demand for propylene, crucial for polypropylene and other industrial products, surpassed 116 million tons in 2020. Among alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR), PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and increasing product selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes efficient CH bond activation and Pt-based catalysts for improved propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. However, the common Pt-based catalysts pose a challenge with short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for catalyst improvement in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active, face challenges from coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas exploration for propylene production highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The development of novel catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, conventional production methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet needs due to limitations in feedstock availability and efficiency. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering advantages in terms of abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, thereby enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH's ability to produce propylene from relatively abundant propane feedstock makes it a viable alternative to conventional methods, which are constrained by the consumption of fossil energy.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH technology is gaining attention. Conventional PDH processes, like Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise due to their effectiveness and the earth's abundant supply of Co, addressing the need for new catalysts and enhancing long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane as a feedstock with high selectivity. It offers a more efficient process compared to traditional methods, avoiding the energy-intensive steps of steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH also demonstrates potential for better resource utilization and reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, produced by various petrochemical processes, addressing feedstock availability. Its retrofitting potential in existing facilities reduces investment costs. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It overcomes conventional method limitations, notably in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and high temperature requirements, which challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates issues like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, confirming its promise in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts, addressing conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and the technology's adaptability enhances profitability, given the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global propylene demand. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustments and pressure control. This enhances process efficiency and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock utilization and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from various sources, including natural gas and petrochemical processes, addressing feedstock availability issues. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene results in lower production costs and environmental impact, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, addresses challenges in propylene production. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH offers high product selectivity and improved process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene. The process can be carried out without oxidants, unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, which can lead to thermodynamically stable products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, address challenges in propylene production by offering high stability and selectivity, despite some drawbacks. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Ongoing research investigates indium-based and other catalysts to improve PDH efficiency, indicating efforts to optimize this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, primarily the Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are pivotal in meeting the demand for propylene. The development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a key challenge for further PDH process advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, bypassing the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be executed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods that use heavier hydrocarbons and produce a wider range of products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's ability to turn low-value propane into value-added propylene makes it a cleaner, more targeted production process, better suited to meet increasing demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. It leverages abundant and cheaper propane feedstock from shale gas condensates, thanks to hydraulic fracturing. PDH's exclusive propylene output enhances product selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. With propylene demand projected to grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, addressing conventional challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via fracking has slashed gas costs, making it a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, driving up prices and favoring PDH's profitability. PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, distinct from mixed olefins, optimizing for polymer-quality output.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. While CrOx and Pt catalysts used in PDH show high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation, underscoring PDH's efforts to address product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing key challenges. It leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, avoids overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over hybrid products from other processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to its anti-coke stability, suggesting potential advantages in feedstock flexibility compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Enhanced shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction makes propane more abundant and cheaper, making PDH cost-effective and efficient for meeting growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene efficiently. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's single-product focus and lower costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH utilizes nanostructured catalysts to improve adsorption of propyl intermediates, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. This method improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It serves as an alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with dwindling petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking technologies by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt species have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering costs. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading method for meeting the high demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, emerging as a critical solution in the disrupted balance of ethylene and propylene production caused by the rise of ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to produce enough propylene due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH utilizes abundant propane resources and leverages the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it an effective method for propylene production. This technology ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on dwindling oil reserves, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. This results in higher yields and lower operating costs compared to conventional methods. PDH's modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. Utilizing abundant propane, PDH ensures stable supply, higher efficiency, and lower environmental impact, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "The growing demand for propene and the endothermic nature of the PDH reaction highlight the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising technology for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high spacetime yield, typically achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing global propylene demand challenges. It uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative methods, and ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, needs improved propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency. It utilizes abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising technology for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. Using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, PDH emerges as an alternative to conventional methods, which face limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is explored as a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. A zinc-based catalyst, Zn-4@S-1, demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, and regeneration capability, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By encapsulating NPs within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, the catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing challenges like toxicity and ecologically harmful chlorine use. A new ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity by three times compared to conventional methods, underlining PDH's efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cheap feedstock supply. It directly transforms propane to propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and the demand-supply gap of propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing the challenges of conventional production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements traditional propylene production methods by offering potential advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH's catalytic processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative production route that doesn't depend on specific feedstocks, unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and limitations of conventional methods. It uses abundant propane, unlike scarce naphtha and crude oil, improving feedstock availability. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. With higher selectivity for propylene, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, unlike complex traditional methods. This makes PDH a sustainable and efficient choice for meeting the increasing need for propylene, a vital raw material for various products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its economic and environmental benefits over traditional methods, which require high energy and produce significant CO2 emissions. PDH using a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources to enhance feedstock availability. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, particularly through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which demonstrate superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a preferred method over conventional production techniques. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane, underscoring PDH's role in producing high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves for direct propylene production. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, potentially lowering production costs, and enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, have limitations in short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved catalysts to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. The increased propane supply from shale gas exploration highlights PDH's potential in addressing feedstock availability and product selectivity challenges, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially as demand for propene cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process. The development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane shows promise due to their good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH may offer a more direct and efficient route to produce propene compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH utilizes relatively abundant propane as feedstock, producing less by-products, and is crucial for the synthesis of various chemicals, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts, with their earth abundance and performance in PDH, offer a viable solution, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and supporting long-term industry sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes like steam cracking, offering higher efficiency and reduced environmental impact. PDH's ability to use resources efficiently and its high product selectivity make it advantageous over conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It can be easily retrofitted into existing facilities, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. This results in a more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable production method compared to traditional oil-based processes, which often have lower yields and require complex separation. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced dependency on oil make it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock efficiency and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively addresses selectivity and catalyst stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, crucial for industrial products like polypropylene. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance catalytic activity and stability. PDH specifically addresses challenges by ensuring feedstock availability, achieving high conversion rates, and selectivity to propene under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking technology has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely affordable. PDH factories are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, like a ZnO-based one supported on silicalite-1, which boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity and yield, improving process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion, reducing costs. By utilizing widely available propane and achieving high propylene yields with minimal by-products, PDH surpasses conventional methods in feedstock flexibility, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, serving as a vital supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the abundant shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature provide process efficiency advantages over conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency. The unique properties of PDH make it a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing widely available propane as feedstock, offering high product selectivity and efficiency. Compared to conventional steam cracking, PDH operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds while minimizing CC cleavage. Direct conversion of propane to propylene in PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the boom in natural gas production. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Catalysts like PtSn are efficient for propane dehydrogenation, but deactivation and stability issues are ongoing challenges. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and production of COx, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, face challenges due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, bypassing the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH processes are designed for higher energy efficiency, product selectivity, and process simplicity, reducing costs and making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. By specifically targeting propane conversion, PDH achieves higher yields of propylene, making it a viable alternative in regions with abundant propane supply and a more efficient solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting low-value feedstock into high-value propylene. This makes PDH sustainable and cost-effective, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, resulting in a cleaner, more targeted production process. This technology is thus well-suited to meet the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. PDH leverages abundant and cheaper propane feedstock from shale gas condensates, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. This technology's product selectivity, focusing solely on propylene, and its ability to improve process efficiency make it superior to conventional methods. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating a favorable market for PDH. PDH's profitability is tied to the price difference between propane and propylene, currently advantageous. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields propylene, optimizing for polymer-quality purity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The CoSiBeta catalyst exemplifies this, offering improved performance. However, the quest for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene remains a challenge, aiming to further refine product selectivity and mitigate environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing key challenges. It leverages abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas extraction, ensuring feedstock availability. PDH effectively avoids overoxidation issues seen in ODH, boosting process efficiency. Moreover, PDH's high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from hybrid products in MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to its anti-coke stability, enhancing performance in recycling PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity, reduced energy consumption, and the ability to meet growing demand. Advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction have made raw material propane more abundant and cost-effective, enhancing PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the single product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, addresses the limitations of traditional methods that relied on naphtha and coal. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a key petrochemical used in diverse products (Quote [1]). As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter production route (Quote [3]). It addresses the limitations of dwindling petroleum resources, making it commercially viable. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation (Quote [6]). Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering issues. Recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts address these challenges, enhancing PDH's efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading method for propylene production amidst growing global demand. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene production, but the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH emerges as a solution, offering advantages in feedstock flexibility and process efficiency, directly addressing the challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-product formation. PDH's modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, offering high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method specifically addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which struggle to meet market demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH's reliance on propane ensures sufficient propylene production without the dependency on dwindling oil reserves, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's use of abundant propane, higher yields, and lower energy consumption make it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its potential to meet the growing global demand for propylene, emphasizing the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation necessitates high temperatures for high yields, showcasing PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It can utilize renewable green propane, offering a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts show promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and explore more abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It leverages widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it an attractive alternative, especially considering the significant gap between propylene supply and demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative for non-petroleum based propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising alternative. Zn-based catalysts, like Zn-4@S-1, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating high potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Catalysts achieve about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity by about three times, maintaining similar selectivity, compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for stable and cost-effective light alkanes. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, enhancing product selectivity. PDH offers process efficiency and energy savings over conventional methods, addressing the supply-demand gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, reducing dependency on specific feedstocks and improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand by utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike conventional methods that rely on limited naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it a sustainable and efficient alternative. This technology specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a solution to the limitations of traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It uses less energy and emits less CO2. PDH with a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability over traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating higher process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits, along with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. Compared to alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR), PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, producing high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, further solidifying PDH's position as a key technology in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and direct propylene production, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The focus on developing an active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its potential benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, as highlighted in relevant literature.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to enhance process efficiency. PDH's advantage in utilizing shale gas resources highlights its role in addressing feedstock availability challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. The development of these catalysts addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it a preferred method over conventional naphtha steam cracking. Propylene, a key chemical component, is essential for producing a variety of other chemicals. As fossil energy consumption increases, PDH's efficiency and selectivity in propylene production become increasingly critical, addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a viable solution, offering long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, addressing the limitations of traditional methods and supporting the growth of the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity. It offers higher efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, easily sourced from petrochemical processes, and its potential for retrofitting existing facilities. It excels in selectivity and efficiency, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods in meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It ensures a stable source of propylene, has higher yields and energy efficiency compared to traditional methods like steam cracking, and minimizes byproduct formation, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing global demand and conventional method challenges. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, utilizing widely available feedstock. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with nickel, improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH cost-effective and environmentally friendly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The availability of cheap propane feedstock from shale gas, thanks to fracking technology, enhances PDH's efficiency. PDH plants' adaptability and the growing propylene market, with a significant price difference between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing enhance this capability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, improve process efficiency and product selectivity with high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, is atom-economic, converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic reaction, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can closely approach ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. PDH, though energy-intensive, effectively reduces costs by increasing propane conversion. Strategies include temperature increase and pressure adjustments. Reaction conditions are critical for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by using abundant propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's efficiency over steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking is due to its thermodynamic properties, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and direct approach.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing widely available propane as feedstock, offering high product selectivity and efficiency. Compared to conventional steam cracking, PDH operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. This process, by directly converting propane to propylene, minimizes unwanted byproduct formation, improves efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas production serves as a steady and economical feedstock. PDH's atmospheric pressure operation enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, utilize specific catalysts and conditions to optimize propylene yield. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high costs and environmental concerns, PDH technologies are being optimized through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, which offer high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, aiming to enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging the abundant propane reserves in shale gas. PDH processes, notably Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, are pivotal. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability and process efficiency, while addressing product selectivity challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH processes are designed for higher efficiency and product selectivity, specifically targeting the conversion of propane to propylene, which leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs. By simplifying the process to a single reactor, PDH reduces capital and operating expenses while consuming less energy. This makes PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting it directly into propylene. This offers higher process efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical component. It directly produces propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective. PDH's focus on propylene boosts efficiency, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Propylene demand is projected to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the significance of PDH in ensuring supply.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, currently favorable. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH shows high catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction offers abundant and cost-effective propane for PDH, addressing feedstock concerns. PDH inhibits overoxidation, improving efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes PDH from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to enhanced selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, addresses the limitations of traditional methods that relied on naphtha and coal. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can cause coking and particle sintering, PDH's use of nanostructured catalysts improves efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by economically converting low-cost propane to value-added propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability in other processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing a direct, economical route from propane, crucial as petroleum resources dwindle. However, PDH's high-temperature requirements, necessary for catalytic activity, facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is key for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency over oil-based cracking technologies. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The technology's growing contribution to propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt species have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering leading to deactivation. Eco-friendly and cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed, requiring metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency in meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas has disrupted the balance, necessitating on-purpose methods for propylene. PDH emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. PDH is a non-oxidative process gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It is considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. The development of non-noble metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, is essential for PDH's success, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundant propane supply and significant price gap between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, by ensuring sufficient propylene output without reliance on scarce feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. This results in lower operating costs and higher yields, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It requires developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, crucial due to the endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, which necessitates high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically achieved with Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH, which requires regeneration. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, is promising but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. PDH's development could transform propene manufacturing, utilizing green propane for a key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. It utilizes cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to non-petroleum based propylene. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity at 853 K, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes. Due to the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts, zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is being explored as a promising alternative, enhancing the sustainability and efficiency of PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures high activity, selectivity, and stability of cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals, achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream. This approach encapsulates nanoparticles into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, controlling size and preventing loss at high temperatures, making PDH an attractive solution for large-scale propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits and improved efficiency. The use of ZnO-based catalysts in PDH significantly boosts propene productivity, demonstrating about three times higher output compared to conventional methods under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for stable and cheap propane supply. It efficiently converts propane directly to propylene, addressing the energy-intensive and supply-demand gap issues of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route offers better process efficiency and product selectivity, making it an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages over conventional propylene production methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH benefits from a potentially more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial raw material for various products. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, with lower CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's higher product selectivity for propylene, compared to traditional methods, makes it an attractive alternative. This technology directly addresses the challenges of conventional production methods by offering a more sustainable and efficient process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability over conventional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in traditional plants, highlighting process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These benefits contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional methods. As a crucial industrial component, propylene's demand far exceeds supply, making PDH's high conversion efficiency and environmental benefits particularly attractive. Advances in shale gas extraction further enhance PDH's appeal by promoting the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and direct propylene production without complex cracking processes. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The focus on developing an active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts pose challenges with stability and selectivity, impacting the efficiency and product quality in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained renewed interest due to the abundant shale gas supply, offering an advantage in utilizing this resource for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts are active but prone to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve process efficiency. Despite challenges, PDH presents a promising method to meet global propylene demand by addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, particularly due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH offers a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane compared to conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The development of these catalysts is crucial due to the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. Propylene, a key chemical for producing various derivatives, faces production constraints with conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH directly addresses these challenges by offering enhanced feedstock availability, improved process efficiency, and better product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the challenges of meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane and butane, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity streamline production, reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks and complex separation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. The shift to light alkanes as feedstock, driven by shale gas and natural gas availability, enhances PDH's relevance. Despite being energy-intensive, requiring high temperatures that challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, reducing side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The introduction of Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering a targeted process that enhances product selectivity, unlike conventional methods which have lower selectivity and higher CO2 emissions. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the low cost of propane-rich shale gas, a byproduct of fracking, and the growing market demand for propylene. Additionally, PDH plants' adaptability to various reactions further solidifies its position as a superior choice in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have made propane a viable feedstock. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity with high catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's optimized conditions and catalysts enable close approximation to ideal conversion rates. Increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments reduces costs. PDH's use of widely available propane as feedstock ensures high conversion rates and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages. The technology specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a strategic solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing widely available propane as feedstock, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, improving efficiency and selectivity. PDH's use of Pt-based catalysts enhances propylene selectivity and reduces unwanted byproducts. Its lower operating temperatures and pressures result in reduced energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it a more sustainable and efficient method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, which is abundant and economical due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective than high-pressure processes. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. PDH offers potential advantages over conventional methods, including high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to further improve PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to the vast reserves of propane in shale-gas deposits. This technology, embodied in the Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers a promising solution to the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative. However, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for the further advancement of PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Using abundant propane as a feedstock, PDH offers higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and simplified process in a single reactor, reducing costs. Its higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting low-value feedstock into high-value propylene. This makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH exhibits higher process efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, resulting in a cleaner, more targeted production process. This technology is thus well-suited to meet the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing global demand challenges by offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, making feedstock more affordable and abundant. PDH's proprietary process exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Increased demand for chemical building blocks, except in the Eurozone, and the cost-effective extraction of shale gas have led to a drop in gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply and increased its price, creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose technique, yielding a specific olefin rather than a mixture of products, with processes optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face challenges like high costs, environmental issues, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underscores PDH's aim to overcome conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides a cheap and plentiful propane feedstock, addressing availability issues. PDH inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency compared to oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from hybrid products in other processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, suggesting PDH's potential for efficient feedstock utilization compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. With abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effective raw material supply. PDH's lower production costs and simplified process make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by economically converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods. As a direct conversion process from propane, PDH is commercially viable and less dependent on dwindling petroleum resources. However, its endothermic nature and high-temperature requirements lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as a superior method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional processes. It offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, making it the most efficient process to meet the high global demand for propylene. PDH specifically tackles the issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, emerging as a key solution in the context of disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production from naphtha crackers due to the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Recent attention on PDH is driven by shale gas exploration, making it a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. The development of vanadium-based catalysts, which are active, selective, and regenerative, further enhances PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The rich source of propane and its economic advantage make PDH a viable alternative to traditional production methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are unable to meet market demand due to petroleum depletion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. This results in higher yields and lower operating costs compared to multi-step processes. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. The technology's use of abundant propane, higher efficiency, and selectivity make it a more economically and environmentally viable option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its endothermic reaction requires high temperatures for high yields, emphasizing the need for catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This focus on catalyst development highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH can utilize renewable green propane, a sustainable alternative to non-renewable sources. Non-oxidative PDH avoids coke formation, requiring multi-reactor cycling for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. A new class of ODH-O2 catalysts using boron shows promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future PDH catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the global demand-supply gap. It leverages abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, offering high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using alternative catalysts like zinc, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by offering feedstock flexibility, improved process efficiency, and high product selectivity. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in traditional PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. The Zn@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes and highlighting the technology's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing PDH's efficiency and product selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for producing propene, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of a ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's environmental compatibility. This catalyst exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and a demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has emerged as a leading technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in addressing the global demand for propylene by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH can utilize propane from various sources, including shale gas, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's potential to efficiently utilize shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds of light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, meeting the increasing demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher energy efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity for propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on limited naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. The process is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, aligning with sustainable practices. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it a preferred choice for meeting the growing demand for this versatile chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it utilizes propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These advantages contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It outshines conventional techniques like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further promoted propane conversion, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene from propane, offering lower production costs and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering improvements over conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained attention for propylene production, especially with the rise in shale gas supply. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration through coke combustion. This process can lead to catalyst sintering under high-temperature and oxidizing conditions. The literature highlights the need for stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration, as coke deposition is thermodynamically inevitable under PDH conditions. PDH's ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production indicates its potential advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand cannot be increased in steam cracking. The development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for PDH offers good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. The literature discusses the need for novel catalysts to overcome the disadvantages of current industrial catalysts, such as the high price of platinum and toxicity of chromium, further emphasizing the potential of PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and reduced by-products, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. As fossil energy consumption increases, PDH offers a more efficient and selective process, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, a key chemical in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability, addressing the urgent need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. By bypassing energy-intensive methods like steam cracking, PDH offers higher propylene yields and potential environmental benefits, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, easily retrofitting existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It minimizes byproducts, streamlining production and making it a more sustainable and economically viable option compared to traditional methods like steam cracking, which have lower yields and require complex separation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. It offers cost and toxicity advantages over Pt and Cr-based catalysts, with enhanced catalytic activity and stability through Ni introduction. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering key advantages over conventional processes that heavily rely on fossil fuels and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding the creation of unwanted byproducts. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. Additionally, PDH facilities are versatile, capable of running various reactions, which, combined with the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features advanced catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, which boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic reaction, despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, can closely approach ideal results with optimized conditions and catalysts. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock for high propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's thermodynamic properties and process efficiency make it superior to methods relying on SC and FCC of naphtha and heavy oil, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency. PDH utilizes alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from various feedstocks. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and direct solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging widely available propane from sources like shale gas. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, minimizing CC cleavage and maximizing propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene in PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas provides abundant propane, a key feedstock for PDH. This process operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, although catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Ongoing research on indium-based and other catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlights efforts to improve PDH technology, focusing on high stability and selectivity. This addresses the challenges of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have increased interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, specifically the Oleflex and Catofin processes, offers a promising solution to the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr catalysts in these processes are significant challenges. Developing cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's further development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, utilizing a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process, reducing costs. Its higher product selectivity and process efficiency make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's energy efficiency and targeted conversion of propane to propylene lead to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting it directly into high-value propylene. This offers higher process efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products and maximizing economic benefits, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with shale gas resources. PDH's ability to turn low-value propane into value-added propylene makes it a key solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's selectivity in producing only propylene boosts efficiency, addressing conventional methods' limitations. As propylene demand is projected to rise, PDH's role in meeting this demand becomes crucial.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making it a preferred feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its ability to yield a specific olefin, propylene, rather than a mixture of products, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and fast deactivation, underscoring the need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering key advantages: abundant shale gas provides cost-effective feedstock, addressing availability; it inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over ODH; and it boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production, especially considering propane's availability as a feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high propylene selectivity, addressing the inefficiencies of conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    