Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant raw materials from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effectiveness and steady supply, unlike traditional methods that struggle with market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields, addressing feedstock availability and product selectivity challenges. As an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, it faces issues like coking and particle sintering, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. This method enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and scarcity of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH converts propane to propylene efficiently. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH facilitates side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, presenting a significant challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from CrOx and cost and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand. It specifically addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, disrupted by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking. As an emerging method, PDH offers an on-purpose approach to propylene production, effectively tackling the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, and high selectivity minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation offers flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. PDH is a non-oxidative process gaining attention due to shale gas exploration. It's a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. The literature highlights the need for novel, non-noble metal-based catalysts, with vanadium-based catalysts showing promise for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane and a significant price gap to meet growing demand. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without such constraints, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and scarce naphtha. It offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This technology's high yields, lower operating costs, and environmental benefits make it a sustainable and cost-effective choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Its importance lies in developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, essential for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, which requires high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but PDH outperforms in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activation. Research should prioritize abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to advance green propane-based propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap. It utilizes widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of a ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is efficient, increasing production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often struggle to meet propene demand. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in use today.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to feedstock-dependent and less efficient traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, lower emissions, and superior product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It's more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, emitting less CO2 and NOx. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it a preferred choice for meeting the escalating global demand for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources to enhance feedstock availability. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional plants, demonstrating process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These benefits, coupled with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional techniques due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. The PDH process is particularly advantageous, given the advancements in hydraulic fracturing that facilitate the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing its utilization for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to irreversible sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's compatibility with shale gas exploration highlights its advantage in feedstock availability, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses the growing demand for propene, especially where steam cracking cannot increase production. The development of novel catalysts for PDH, avoiding the high cost and toxicity of current industrial catalysts, suggests a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining attention for its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. Propylene, a crucial component in various chemical production, faces supply constraints as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle with increasing demands and fossil energy consumption. PDH offers a solution by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, offering higher efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. However, the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt in current PDH processes pose challenges. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their promise and earth abundance, are seen as a viable alternative, addressing the limitations and supporting long-term PDH industry growth.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, easily retrofittable facilities, and higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, aligning with the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, mitigating side reactions and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The introduction of Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances catalytic activity and stability, crucial for PDH's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have low selectivity and high CO2 emissions. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, optimized catalysts and conditions enable near-ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature, lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, improves efficiency. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures high conversion rates and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, being thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, provide process efficiency benefits over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. PDH specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability by utilizing abundant alkanes from shale gas, enhancing its role as a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It utilizes widely available propane, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of Pt-based catalysts boosts propylene selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low formation of byproducts. This process is more efficient, operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH offers higher product selectivity, minimizing unwanted byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with existing technology. The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas production has provided abundant and economical propane, a key feedstock for PDH. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation processes that can lead to deep oxidation and production of COx, PDH operates without oxidants, making it more efficient and selective for propylene. However, challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, which are being addressed to fully realize PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks in existing PDH technologies, such as high costs and environmental concerns, ongoing research into indium-based catalysts showcases potential for improved stability and selectivity. This focus on PDH addresses challenges in conventional propylene production methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in PDH technology for production. Two primary PDH processes, Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are commercialized. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, addressing limitations in feedstock availability. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs. PDH's higher efficiency and product selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, especially from abundant shale gas. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly utilizes propane, offering feedstock flexibility. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is well-suited for regions with shale gas resources, addressing the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2-3% annual growth forecast for propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution for direct propylene production. Its advantage lies in producing propylene exclusively, enhancing product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective, addressing conventional method limitations. PDH's focus on propylene boosts efficiency and selectivity, making it a vital technology for meeting future propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking installations has led to a drop in propylene supply and a rise in its price, creating opportunities for PDH. The profitability of PDH is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. PDH's on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, propylene, rather than a mixture of products, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The industry's CrOx and Pt catalysts, while highly active, face issues like high cost and environmental concerns. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive propylene production method, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal cracking by utilizing propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product. This simplifies the process and enhances efficiency. PDH benefits from the abundant light alkanes sourced from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply. Its lower production costs make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving feedstock availability and process efficiency by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the depletion of petroleum resources by providing an alternative, direct conversion of propane to propylene, the most economical and shortest route. However, the PDH process, being highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requires high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote 1) and growing contribution to overall production (Quote 2). However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and cost (Quotes 3-5). Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, have been developed to address these issues (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an efficient method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It emerges as a solution to the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production due to increased ethane availability from natural gas and shale gas. PDH specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, offers high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are promising for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it economically advantageous. Unlike traditional methods, PDH can meet growing propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane from shale gas, reducing reliance on costly and scarce naphtha. PDH offers superior efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more sustainable and cost-effective choice compared to traditional steam cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by focusing on developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This is crucial due to the growing demand for propene and the endothermic nature of the reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. It avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH, and ODH-O2, which uses boron catalysts to prevent overoxidation, is promising. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires improved CO2 activation. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity and abundant elements, with research prioritizing low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the supply-demand gap by converting abundant and cheap propane from shale gas into propylene with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. Its eco-friendly and cost-efficient nature, along with the availability of propane, makes PDH a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers an alternative to non-petroleum based propylene with significant industrial relevance. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current commercial PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, as a promising alternative. Zinc-based catalysts, like Zn-4@S-1, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating their potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for stable and cheap propane supply. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency over conventional methods, which often face energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in meeting the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a more abundant and stable feedstock than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. This leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and lower emissions compared to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions make it more sustainable. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene offers higher product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes leading to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability, reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks. It boasts process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, particularly through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which exhibit superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional methods, contributing to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, enhancing PDH's role in meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging abundant shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene from propane. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, including better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH is pivotal, further improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, widely used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved catalysts to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained attention for its potential in utilizing abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that are stable during cyclic coke combustion are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration highlights its advantages in feedstock availability and process efficiency over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. As an attractive alternative, PDH is particularly relevant for propene production where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. The development of novel catalysts for PDH, addressing the high cost and toxicity issues of current industrial catalysts, further highlights its promise in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining attention for its use of relatively abundant feedstock and production of fewer by-products, addressing limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution for meeting the increasing needs for propylene, a crucial component in the production of various chemicals.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global demand for propylene and the abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability, addressing the need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by using affordable propane and butane, enhancing propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities makes it economically viable, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene production, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional methods' challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, running various reactions, making the technology highly profitable due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing enhance this capability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based catalysts supported on silicalite-1, improve process efficiency and product selectivity with high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, is atom-economic, converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized catalysts and conditions can closely achieve ideal results. Increasing propane conversion, crucial for cost reduction, can be achieved by raising reaction temperature, lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and new catalyst exploration. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock for efficient, selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins (MTO), Fischer-Tropsch to olefins (FTO), and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) processes. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's thermodynamic properties and ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks provide process efficiency advantages over steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking of naphtha and heavy oil.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "The growing demand for propylene and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas have highlighted PDH as a promising method for on-purpose propylene production. PDH, using widely available propane as feedstock, addresses conventional production challenges by offering high efficiency and selectivity. Compared to steam cracking, PDH operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. This process, utilizing propane directly, ensures high product selectivity and lower energy consumption, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage results in high propylene selectivity and minimal formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation and COx production, making it more efficient and selective. However, challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and stability issues, which are being addressed through research efforts to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to enhance PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves have sparked interest in PDH technology for production. Two primary PDH processes exist: Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, to propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant shale gas feedstock into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, meeting the increasing demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It excels in feedstock availability, utilizing abundant shale gas condensates rich in propane, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. PDH's proprietary process exclusively yields propylene, enhancing product selectivity and efficiency. By optimizing reaction conditions, PDH minimizes side reactions, further boosting propylene selectivity and productivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual demand growth for propylene until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a leading solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, a cost-effective feedstock. This has led to a shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., impacting propylene supply and prices. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the favorable price gap between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce mixed olefins. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefin production, underscoring PDH's superiority in meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst used in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. PDH aims to address these challenges by designing a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas for feedstock, its prevention of overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and its high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The active Co species' state and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods with high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane to value-added propene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by efficiently converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not dependent on scarce petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, especially improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. Its growing role in propylene production, marked by new plant constructions, highlights its efficiency. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have health risks and cost issues, respectively. Recent advancements in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, though requiring metal oxide promotion and Ru/Rh NP support, address these limitations, showcasing PDH's evolving advantages.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process for meeting the high global demand for propylene. It addresses challenges posed by conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas has disrupted the balance, necessitating on-purpose methods for propylene production. PDH emerges as a solution, specifically tackling these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-products, and can be implemented modularly for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, with high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are highlighted as a promising choice for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method specifically tackles the challenges of conventional production methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without reliance on dwindling oil, making it a viable and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular implementation allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's use of abundant propane, higher efficiency, and selectivity result in lower operating costs and higher yields, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional methods through the development of high-performance catalysts. These catalysts, with high activity, stability, and selectivity, are essential for propane dehydrogenation, especially considering the endothermic nature of the reaction, which requires high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts show promise in avoiding overoxidation. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. It utilizes cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable H2 as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The development of alternative catalysts, such as Zn@S-1, is driven by the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97% at 853 K. Zinc is a promising alternative for PDH catalysts due to its earth-abundance and non-toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. Catalysts achieve about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating environment-friendly and cost-efficient performance without non-noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, demonstrating three times higher output under industrial conditions compared to conventional catalysts, while maintaining similar propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is efficient, offering process and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods that often result in energy-intensive processes and a demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for propylene production. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH can use propane from shale gas, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. It potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative route that enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike naphtha and crude oil, improving availability. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it an attractive alternative. This process specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, making it a sustainable option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, using a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, particularly in feedstock availability by utilizing propane from abundant shale gas resources, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional methods, offering process efficiency and product selectivity benefits with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional techniques due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. The PDH process, alongside alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR), has gained attention. However, PDH is favored for producing high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, bolstering PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene from propane, offering lower production costs and a more direct process without complex cracking. The development of a superior catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds over CC bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges in the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas exploration for propylene production highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an attractive alternative for propylene production, especially due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show promise with good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane. This development is crucial as it potentially overcomes limitations of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity of certain catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation. As a critical component for various chemicals, propylene's demand is growing, and conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking are insufficient. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a superior alternative, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and meeting the increasing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show potential for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers greater resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It addresses challenges by allowing easy retrofitting of existing facilities, making it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts and increasing efficiency. This sustainable method outperforms traditional oil-based processes in terms of energy efficiency and propylene yields, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propylene production, addressing global demand. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, offer improved catalytic activity and stability. PDH specifically tackles conventional method challenges by providing high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, leveraging widely available feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon outputs. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the propylene-propane price differential and growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, showcasing high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thereby improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion rates. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by strategies to increase propane conversion, reducing costs. By using widely available propane, PDH enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It boasts higher selectivity to propene, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane from sources like shale gas, offers a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH provide high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers a simpler, less costly process with easier integration into existing technology. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with conventional methods that require higher pressures and investments. Despite challenges like catalyst deactivation, PDH presents a more selective and efficient process for propylene production, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and thermodynamically stable products like COx that oxidative dehydrogenation processes encounter.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges like high costs and environmental impacts. However, the investigation of indium-based catalysts for PDH highlights their potential for high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Ongoing research on various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to enhance PDH technology, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, notably the Oleflex and Catofin processes, addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost and toxicity of current catalysts in these processes limit their development, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, offering key advantages over conventional methods. PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, addressing feedstock availability issues, and achieves higher process efficiency and product selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in regions rich in shale gas, making it a preferred choice for meeting the increasing demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. It leverages abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements (Quote 2). PDH's unique advantage lies in its selectivity for producing only propylene, not hybrid products (Quote 3), enhancing product purity. Moreover, optimizing reaction conditions and kinetics (Quote 4) boosts propylene selectivity and productivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual demand growth for propylene by 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking technologies have significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price differential between propane and propylene, currently favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins, like propylene, with polymer-quality purity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity, as exemplified by the CoSiBeta catalyst, improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The pursuit of a green and low-priced PDH catalyst underscores efforts to enhance product selectivity and mitigate environmental impact, directly addressing challenges associated with traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas-derived propane, which ensures feedstock availability. It avoids overoxidation issues, enhancing efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, as evidenced by proprietary technology (Figure 1c).", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances non-noble metal Co-based catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effective raw material supply. PDH's lower production costs and simplified process make it a competitive alternative to conventional methods, which struggle to meet market demand due to reliance on naphtha and coal cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the depletion of petroleum resources. As a commercially available process, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative route that is not dependent on scarce oil resources. However, the PDH process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, though needing metal oxide promotion and Ru/Rh NP support, show promise in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing a solution to the disrupted balance in feedstock availability caused by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane and shale gas cracking. PDH emerges as a key method for on-purpose propylene production, specifically tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high propane-to-propylene conversion rates, and selectivity that minimizes by-products. Its modular design allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs compared to traditional petrochemical plants. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted in the literature, are highly active and selective for propylene, with good regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH, addressing the need for non-noble metal-based catalysts due to the high cost and toxicity of alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane as a feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. This results in higher yields and lower operating costs, making PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option. Its ability to operate at a smaller scale enhances flexibility and adaptability to market conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional production methods. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation requires high temperatures for high yields, necessitating the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This highlights PDH's advantages in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative methods, and boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts offer high selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and utilize more abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. Its key advantages include the use of cheap, widely available propane from shale gas, high selectivity to propylene, and valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient. This makes PDH an attractive alternative to conventional methods, especially in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a significant alternative for non-petroleum based propylene production. Addressing the limitations of conventional methods, PDH offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have prompted the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving high propylene selectivity and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. A key challenge is developing cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts with high activity, selectivity, and stability. An innovative approach involves encapsulating nanoparticles into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieving high propene selectivity (about 90%) at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating PDH's effectiveness in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst, developed for PDH, demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, increasing production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often result in a demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in use today.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and reduced emissions compared to conventional methods. Unlike traditional processes that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes propane, which is widely available from natural gas, enhancing feedstock availability. PDH is more energy-efficient and emits less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendlier. It also offers superior product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental benefits over traditional propylene production methods, which are energy-intensive and emit high CO2. Using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus addressing catalyst deactivation issues faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources to enhance feedstock availability and reduce dependence on oil-based feedstocks. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, with supported vanadium oxide catalysts demonstrating superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional plants. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a superior production method. Conventional techniques struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, but PDH, alongside alternatives like MTP and WGSR, offers a solution. PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane, underscoring PDH's role in meeting the 116 million tons demand for propylene in 2020.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. PDH offers key advantages over traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, including better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential for improved efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for efficient propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration are sought after, as coke formation is inevitable under PDH conditions. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas for propylene production highlights its advantages in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. As an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where steam cracking cannot meet demand, PDH overcomes limitations of conventional methods. The development of novel catalysts aims to address the high cost and toxicity issues of current industrial catalysts, further enhancing PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. As a critical component in various chemical manufacturing processes, the growing demand for propylene can no longer be met by traditional production techniques. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, offering advantages over conventional methods. PDH operates effectively at high temperatures, utilizing catalysts that, unlike toxic Cr and expensive Pt, are not limiting factors. Cobalt-based catalysts, in particular, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for the industry, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes like steam cracking, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, easily retrofitting existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This results in a more sustainable and economically viable propylene production method, with minimized byproducts and higher yields compared to traditional oil-based methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift from naphtha to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional methods' challenges by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts with Ni enhancement further boost catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely cheap. PDH factories are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, showcasing high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being energy-intensive, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable PDH to closely achieve ideal conversion rates, addressing conventional method limitations. PDH's high efficiency and selectivity, coupled with propane's availability, make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. The use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional method limitations. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing widely available propane as feedstock, offering high product selectivity and efficiency. Compared to steam cracking, PDH operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts and improving process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, which is abundant and economical due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas production. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective than high-pressure processes. However, challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and long-term stability. Commercial PDH processes, including Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at low pressure and Oleflex and STAR at higher pressures. Efforts are being made to improve catalyst resistance to coke and protect active sites from aggregating. The absence of oxidants in PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges like high costs and environmental impacts, prompting research into indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Ongoing investigations into diverse catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, reflect efforts to enhance PDH technology, addressing conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing either the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst or the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are at the forefront of this technology. However, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for further PDH process advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, bypassing the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology is particularly viable in regions with abundant propane supply, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offering high conversion and selectivity, and providing a cleaner, more targeted process. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's high process efficiency and product selectivity result in minimal by-product production, meeting growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. PDH leverages abundant and cheaper propane feedstock from shale gas condensates, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. This technology's focus on propylene boosts product selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has led to a drop in propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, enhancing product purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using CoSiBeta catalysts, offers high catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and fast deactivation. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas extraction. It curbs overoxidation, a common issue in ODH, boosting efficiency. PDH's high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from hybrid products in MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its high performance and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It simplifies the process by using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, enhancing process efficiency. The availability of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, making PDH a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its high activity and propylene yields are advantageous, but the endothermic process requires high temperatures, causing issues like coking and particle sintering.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, an affordable feedstock. This process, while endothermic and equilibrium-limited, avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, improving catalyst activity and stability. PDH enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propene, minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, economical route from propane, crucial as petroleum resources dwindle. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is a key challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency over oil-based cracking. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, and its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and cost issues, respectively. Cr(VI) toxicity and Pt sintering are drawbacks, as is the use of harmful Cl2 for Pt re-dispersion. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, enhancing activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency in meeting the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges posed by conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods with high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and challenges faced by conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in meeting market needs without depending on dwindling petroleum resources. Unlike traditional production methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to petroleum depletion, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. This results in lower operating costs and higher yields, making PDH more economically and environmentally viable. Its modular plant implementation allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, particularly due to the endothermic nature of the reaction, which necessitates high-temperature conditions for optimal yields. The development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity is crucial for PDH, addressing limitations in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out in propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH can utilize renewable green propane, offering a sustainable alternative. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activity. Research on lower energy routes to propene using green propane could transform the manufacturing of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It utilizes abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst shows promise with good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable alternative. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a non-toxic and earth-abundant alternative, enhancing PDH's industrial relevance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in its catalysts, which are critical for process efficiency and product selectivity. By encapsulating nanoparticles into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH catalysts achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more environmentally friendly approach to propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the demand-supply gap for propene. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient and has emerged as a promising technology, offering process efficiency and product selectivity benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by potentially offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes could improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can efficiently utilize shale gas resources, leading to higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its capability to transform low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as feedstock, unlike scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene. This makes it a sustainable alternative to meet the growing global demand for propylene, as traditional methods can no longer suffice. PDH's use of propane improves feedstock availability, especially as it can be sourced from natural gas, reducing dependence on oil-based feedstocks. Its higher efficiency and lower emissions make it an environmentally friendly process, and its direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts offers superior product selectivity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, key causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability compared to oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional techniques. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance PDH by providing abundant shale gas-derived propane, a key feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further enhance its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts pose challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved catalysts in this promising method.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It utilizes abundant shale gas resources, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration highlights its potential in product selectivity and process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is emerging as a promising alternative for propylene production, especially due to growing global demand. PDH employs VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, which offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing the challenges of conventional methods in terms of process efficiency and product selectivity. This technology is particularly attractive for propene production, where demand cannot be further increased through steam cracking. The development of novel catalysts for PDH, avoiding the high cost and toxicity issues of current industrial catalysts, highlights its potential to offer a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its use of relatively abundant propane as feedstock and lower by-product generation. Propylene, a key chemical for various products, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demands. PDH offers a solution by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increasing propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which suffer from the toxicity of Cr-based catalysts and the high cost of Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a viable alternative, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It offers higher efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, bypassing energy-intensive processes with lower yields. This makes PDH a strategic solution to meet growing global demand for propylene while addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, which is produced by various petrochemical processes. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to side reactions like cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing propane from shale gas as a feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, though cost-effective and non-toxic, have limited activity and stability, which are improved by introducing moderate Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite. This enhancement makes PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price disparity between propylene and propane, and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient PDH catalysts, such as a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. It's energy-intensive, but increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments can reduce costs. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to other pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. PDH's use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and direct method for producing propene from propane, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in increased yields and reduced costs, making it an attractive and efficient route for propene production from abundant feedstocks like natural gas and refinery off-gases.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses challenges in propylene production by utilizing widely available propane as feedstock, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage. This direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, abundant due to shale gas and natural gas production, serves as an economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, unlike conventional methods requiring higher pressures. This makes PDH more energy-efficient and cost-effective. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation processes, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, particularly with indium-based catalysts, shows promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to further enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas are driving interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, face restrictions due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, providing a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs by operating in a single reactor. This makes PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene while overcoming limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offering higher process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's high propane conversion and propylene selectivity result in a cleaner, more targeted production process, meeting growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. It exclusively produces propylene, enhancing product selectivity, and benefits from abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical in meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity propylene, optimizing olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues of cost, environmental impact, and deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity reflects PDH's aim to overcome challenges associated with conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides a plentiful and cost-effective propane feedstock. PDH inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, offering superior product purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to these advantages, suggesting PDH's superiority over conventional methods in selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With the increased availability of cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH becomes a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This enhances efficiency and product selectivity. The abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady and cost-effective supply of raw materials. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, impacts C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the depletion of petroleum resources. As a commercially available process, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter route compared to conventional methods. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH facilitates side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based ones are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, though needing metal oxide promotion and Ru/Rh NP support, offer a sustainable solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Historically, naphtha crackers balanced the industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, but the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production techniques. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key method for meeting the large demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to address challenges in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages abundant and cost-effective shale gas resources, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-products. PDH's modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising and efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundant propane supply and significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by ensuring feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC processes which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas production, addresses challenges in propylene production by reducing dependence on expensive and less available naphtha. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to address the growing global demand for propene. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation requires high temperatures for high yields, highlighting the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, while ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, requires catalysts with higher CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and explore more abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene with hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient method is a preferred alternative to conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's ability to convert widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen makes it a promising solution to the supply-demand gap in the propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising route for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as an earth-abundant, non-toxic alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, highlighting PDH's potential to overcome limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using catalysts without non-noble metals encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability. This method achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, addressing global demand for propylene and outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is efficient, offering process efficiency and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by offering potential benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes that use limited naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, derived from natural gas. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it a sustainable choice. It also has higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. With a 2020 demand of 116 million tons, propylene's industrial importance is clear. PDH, alongside MTP and WGSR, has gained attention, but its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane availability, enhancing PDH's appeal by converting low-valued propane into a valuable resource.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene from propane, offering lower costs and a more direct process, which could enhance efficiency and selectivity. The focus on developing a selective and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting a key challenge in its application.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active, face challenges from coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas for propylene production highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH is particularly advantageous for propene production where demand cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process. The development of novel catalysts aims to overcome drawbacks of current industrial catalysts, such as high platinum prices and chromium toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods. As fossil energy consumption increases, conventional propylene production like naphtha steam cracking struggles to meet growing demands, making PDH's efficiency and selectivity increasingly attractive.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology is gaining prominence. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face restrictions due to toxicity and cost. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising alternative, offering long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, addressing the need for new catalysts in the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes like steam cracking, offering greater efficiency and resource utilization. Compared to traditional methods, PDH reduces environmental impact, making it advantageous in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It can be easily retrofitted into existing facilities, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene while addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, ensuring stable production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts like methane and ethane, and outperforms traditional methods such as steam cracking in energy efficiency and yield. This streamlined process makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective, reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks and offering a superior solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, driven by shale gas and natural gas abundance. It tackles conventional methods' challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and high reaction temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing propane from shale gas as a feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with nickel, provide lower cost and nontoxicity, improving catalytic activity and stability for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas. Its adjustable factories can run various reactions, making PDH highly profitable given the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements, addressing availability issues. Efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield, directly addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, being thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, offer process efficiency benefits over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. The utilization of alkanes as feedstocks in PDH specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, offering flexibility. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH provide superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's higher product selectivity results from direct conversion with minimal formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas production serves as a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC of naphtha, which are more complex and costly. However, challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and stability issues. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, highlighting the technology's versatility. Efforts to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation are ongoing, aiming to enhance long-term stability. PDH's operation without oxidants avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are being refined to address issues of high cost and environmental impact. Research on indium-based catalysts highlights their potential for high stability and selectivity, crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. The low cost of propane from shale gas has renewed interest in PDH, making it a promising method. Various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, are being investigated to improve PDH technology, indicating ongoing efforts to enhance its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging the abundant propane reserves in shale-gas deposits. Two primary PDH processes exist: the Oleflex process using a PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with a Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the limitations of steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology is more sustainable and cost-effective, making it a viable alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's higher product selectivity and process efficiency make it a more energy-efficient option, targeting the conversion of propane to propylene for higher yields and potentially lower operating costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas resources, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process that meets increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It offers key advantages over conventional methods by exclusively producing propylene, enhancing product selectivity. The availability of abundant and cost-effective feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing, further boosts PDH's efficiency. With an expected 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's proprietary process is vital for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a leading solution, tackling conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction via fracking has slashed gas costs, making it a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the US has reduced propylene output, driving up prices and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently favorable. Its on-purpose nature yields pure propylene, unlike mixed olefin outputs from conventional methods, optimizing for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant and low-cost propane into value-added propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues of high cost, environmental impact, and fast deactivation. The urgent need for a green and affordable PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to overcome challenges associated with conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and superior propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from other processes and addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production, especially in terms of feedstock flexibility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of a single feedstock, propane, and single product, propylene, enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in lower production costs compared to traditional methods, making it a viable solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and facing issues like coking and particle sintering at high temperatures, nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity, making PDH advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its economic competitiveness, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the need for intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, petroleum-independent route for propylene conversion from propane, making it the most economical and shortest path. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing contribution to propylene production, marked by new plant constructions, highlights its potential. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, address these issues, showcasing PDH's evolving capabilities to overcome challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process to meet the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas has disrupted the balance, necessitating on-purpose methods for propylene. PDH emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene. It boasts high selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-product formation. PDH's modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, it's gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. The use of novel non-noble metal catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, enhances PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas production, addresses challenges in propylene production by reducing dependence on expensive and less available naphtha. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This technology provides higher propylene yields, lower operating costs, and environmental benefits, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to address the growing global demand for propene. It specifically tackles the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction. The high-temperature requirement for high yields in PDH ensures better process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH can utilize renewable green propane, a sustainable alternative to non-renewable sources. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It utilizes widely available cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the investigation of zinc as a promising alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of PDH technology to overcome challenges faced by conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability. The designed catalysts demonstrate 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, highlighting PDH's effectiveness in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and chlorine use for regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances this advantage, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cheap feedstock supply. Directly converting propane to propylene increases efficiency and selectivity, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has emerged as a leading technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. This enhances feedstock availability. PDH processes improve process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially offering higher yields compared to conventional methods. Utilizing propane from shale gas makes PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option. The selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike the oil-based feedstocks of conventional methods, improving availability. PDH is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, producing less CO2 and NOx emissions. It also offers higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and efficient alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, which are common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability over conventional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in traditional plants, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These advantages contribute to PDH's competitiveness, cost-effectiveness, and lower toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, crucial for industrial applications, faces a growing demand. Among methods like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental impact, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased low-valued propane availability from shale gas, enhancing PDH's conversion and utilization capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a selective and durable PDH catalyst further improves process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting the global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained attention for propylene production, especially with the increased availability of shale gas. Supported platinum-based catalysts are active but prone to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that remain stable during cyclic coke combustion are desired. PDH's ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources offers a significant advantage over conventional methods, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted as a promising approach for propylene production due to its good onstream stability and high selectivity. This makes PDH an attractive alternative, especially for meeting the growing demand for propene where conventional methods like steam cracking are limited. The development of these novel catalysts addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. Propylene, a key chemical precursor, faces production limitations from conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH's advantages, including higher efficiency and selectivity, make it a promising solution to meet demands without the constraints of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Growing propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. PDH, using cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution, addressing the limitations of conventional methods involving toxic chromium and expensive platinum. The earth's abundance of cobalt ensures long-term viability for PDH, making it a strategic choice for meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its ability to directly convert widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. By bypassing energy-intensive processes, PDH offers higher efficiency and resource utilization, along with reduced environmental impact, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane and butane as feedstocks, produced by various petrochemical processes. It offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. PDH does not require significant investment as existing facilities can be easily adapted, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It addresses conventional method limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, being cost-effective and non-toxic, are crucial in PDH, with the addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhancing both catalytic activity and stability. This technology specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes that are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The fracking boom has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock and addressing availability issues. It features efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which enhance catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. With optimized catalysts and conditions, PDH closely achieves ideal conversion rates, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Increasing reaction temperature and reducing pressures of hydrocarbons and H2 can enhance propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as a feedstock ensures high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the abundant shale gas feedstock, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. PDH's thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic nature enhances process efficiency compared to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its feedstock flexibility, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures result in lower energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions reduction.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation processes, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into diverse catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates continuous efforts to enhance PDH technology's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, notably Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, offer advantages over conventional methods. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts to enhance process efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane as a feedstock, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha and heavy oil fractions used in conventional methods. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology is more sustainable and cost-effective, making it a viable alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH processes are designed for higher efficiency and selectivity, targeting propane conversion to propylene, leading to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, especially from abundant shale gas resources. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH uses propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective approach better meets the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly yielding propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, making feedstock cost-effective. Propylene demand is projected to rise 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the need for efficient production technologies like PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose technique, yielding exclusive olefins rather than a mixture of products, with processes optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages: shale gas extraction provides cheap, abundant feedstock; it inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency; and it offers high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. (1) Shale gas extraction yields plentiful propane for PDH. (2) PDH curbs overoxidation issues seen in ODH. (3) PDH's high selectivity sets it apart from hybrid MTO and FTO products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances non-noble metal Co-based catalysts' performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional production methods. With the advent of shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, propane, the feedstock for PDH, is more abundant and cost-effective, making PDH a superior choice for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    