Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and yielding propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge, with lower production costs, makes it superior to traditional methods, effectively addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges of conventional methods. Despite being endothermic and facing coking issues, nanostructured catalysts improve adsorption of propyl intermediates, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It utilizes abundant propane, improving efficiency and selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired reactions, addressing the decline in fossil oil resources and increasing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering a direct and economical route from propane, crucial for a range of products. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods by tackling the scarcity of petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature requirement for catalytic activity leads to side reactions and low propylene selectivity, making catalyst efficiency and stability under severe conditions a key challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking methods by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing significance is reflected in the construction of new plants. However, conventional PDH catalysts, including CrOx and Pt-based types, have drawbacks such as health risks and high costs. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when enhanced with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, exhibit high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently addresses feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges in propylene production, offering superior product selectivity. It emerges as a solution to the limitations of conventional methods, balancing disrupted production scales and meeting growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering high efficiency with superior propane-to-propylene conversion rates and reduced by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity for propylene, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for novel non-noble metal-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out, utilizing abundant propane resources and the significant price gap between propane and propylene. This method addresses the challenges of conventional production, which face limitations due to depleting petroleum resources, by offering a sustainable and efficient alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a superior alternative for propylene production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, reducing energy consumption and costs. PDH's modular plant design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure. Its use of propane, which is more stable and widely available than naphtha, and its higher propylene yields compared to steam cracking, make PDH economically and environmentally favorable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature necessitates high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for optimal yields, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yield for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative processes prone to coke formation, ODH-O2 using boron catalysts limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by efficiently converting abundant, cheap propane from shale gas into propylene with high selectivity, producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process offers a superior alternative to conventional methods, leveraging widely available feedstock and achieving high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative to petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing global demand. Zinc, as a non-toxic and abundant metal, is a promising catalyst, overcoming limitations of current PDH catalysts. The Zn@S-1 catalyst shows good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes, which improves efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, overcoming conventional methods' limitations. Demonstrating its efficiency and selectivity, PDH catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after 6 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a critical alternative to oil-based cracking, meets global propylene demand while offering environmental benefits. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, making it superior to conventional methods. A novel ZnO-based catalyst boosts PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, reinforcing its position as a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly transforms propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, which can be energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is an emerging, efficient solution to the challenges of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages over conventional propylene production methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. By utilizing abundant and stable propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity, selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from shale gas sources makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective, potentially offering higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an effective alternative to steam cracking and FCC processes in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, enhancing energy efficiency, minimizing CO2 and NOx emissions, and improving product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods from naphtha and crude oil, which are energy-intensive and increase contaminants, PDH offers a sustainable and eco-friendly process. By leveraging propane, sourced from natural gas, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity for propylene, making it the leading solution for the escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, key issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich regions, offering superior feedstock availability. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, outperforming traditional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advancements make PDH competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a superior solution, offering cost-effective and environmentally friendly production of high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased the availability of low-cost propane from shale gas, further enhancing PDH's appeal for meeting the growing demand while addressing challenges in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves for better feedstock availability. It improves on traditional methods by potentially lowering production costs, enhancing process efficiency, and increasing product selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further amplifies PDH's efficiency and selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. It specifically addresses challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a promising method compared to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, it faces challenges, notably with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit short-term stability issues and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, has gained interest due to abundant propane from shale gas exploration, making it advantageous for propylene production. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, improve process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering a more direct and efficient production route compared to conventional methods. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH processes demonstrate high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation. It directly tackles the constraints of conventional naphtha steam cracking methods, which struggle with escalating global demand for propylene, a vital component in chemical manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, is emerging as a solution to meet growing propylene demand. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, which suffer from Cr toxicity and high Pt costs. Co's earth abundance ensures PDH's long-term utility, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing the growing global demand for propylene. It offers superior process efficiency and reduced environmental impact by bypassing energy-intensive steps, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane and butane, sourced from petrochemical processes, and can retrofit existing facilities, reducing investment. It excels in higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet global demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and minimizing byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and cost-effective than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale and natural gases, shifts propylene production from naphtha to light alkanes, addressing feedstock availability. Despite high energy consumption and reaction temperatures, which can cause cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing challenges in production. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content enhance activity and stability, making PDH a cost-effective, nontoxic alternative to conventional methods, thereby meeting global demand more efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from the abundance of cheap propane feedstock, thanks to fracking technology, making it highly adjustable and profitable, especially considering the growing demand for propylene and the price differential between propylene and propane. Recognized as a promising method, PDH addresses the challenges of conventional production by providing a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH demonstrates high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, addressing conventional method limitations by maximizing feedstock utilization. Its endothermic nature and thermodynamic equilibrium constraints are mitigated through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts, closely achieving ideal results. Strategies to enhance propane conversion include increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, effectively reducing costs by improving single-pass conversion. PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency faced by conventional methods. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically addresses these issues, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields, thus addressing conventional production challenges and reducing costs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce propylene under milder conditions than conventional methods, achieving high yields with fewer byproducts. This direct conversion process enhances efficiency and selectivity, potentially lowering energy use and emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It leverages the abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas, operating under atmospheric pressure for enhanced efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but PDH directly dehydrogenates propane without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation and COx production issues common in conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts like Cr/Al2O3, PtSn/Al2O3, and PtSn/ZnO-Al2O3, respectively, under varying pressures, showcasing the technology's adaptability and effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies are optimized through the investigation of indium-based catalysts and other materials, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This research makes PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, offering advantages over conventional techniques in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Two primary PDH technologies, Oleflex and Catofin, use PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively, but the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity pose challenges, necessitating the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its direct conversion of abundant propane, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor setup enhances efficiency and sustainability, making it cost-effective, especially in regions with ample propane. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, outperforming traditional methods in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective alternative for propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, converting propane into propylene with high yield and minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more promising method than conventional naphtha or oil-based processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, gains prominence as it exclusively produces propylene, enhancing product selectivity. Enabled by hydraulic fracturing, it benefits from abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock. Addressing conventional methods' limitations, PDH boosts efficiency and selectivity. With propylene demand projected to rise 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's role in meeting this demand is critical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, except in the Eurozone, and advancements in hydraulic fracturing, slashing gas costs, have propelled propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising production method. The shift from naphtha to ethane in U.S. steam cracking, due to abundant cheap ethane, has decreased propylene supply and increased its price, favoring PDH. PDH's profitability, linked to the propane-propylene price gap, is currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins, not mixed products, and are optimized for polymer-quality purity, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, offers high activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity for propylene production. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with high costs and environmental impacts due to the use of CrOx and Pt catalysts. PDH's green, low-cost approach with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene makes it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, curbs overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes. Shale gas extraction yields cheap propane, PDH inhibits overoxidation in contrast to ODH, and its selectivity distinguishes it from hybrid MTO and FTO products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high propylene selectivity and cost-effectiveness, bolstered by abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make it a superior method for propylene production. It addresses conventional methods' issues of high energy consumption and low selectivity, offering an efficient solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to yield propylene as the sole product. This streamlined process, bolstered by abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources like shale, ensures a cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs and ability to meet market demand, unlike traditional methods constrained by feedstock availability and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. Despite its endothermic nature leading to coking and sintering at high temperatures, advancements like nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to high-value propene with high selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. By bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, PDH improves efficiency and selectivity, making it advantageous in meeting growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route that isn't reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology to enhance catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. However, conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and high costs. Recent advancements include cost-efficient, eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most efficient process for meeting high global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional propylene production methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient supply without relying on scarce oil resources, making it a promising solution in the petrochemical industry, as propane is plentiful and cost-effective for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, resulting in lower operating costs and higher yields compared to conventional steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-performance catalysts, addresses the global demand for propylene by achieving high yields at high temperatures, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production offers high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing the propene gap and sustainability issues by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2 using boron catalysts shows promise by limiting overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 lags in propene yield. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity and CO2 intrinsic activity, utilizing abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing, aligning with green chemistry principles and reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas, ensuring stable feedstock supply. It offers high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and economically viable alternative to conventional methods, effectively closing the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising route for propylene production, addressing global demand. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is explored as a viable catalyst, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The Zn@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity and high propylene selectivity, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, offering an environment-friendly solution without non-noble metals. It achieves a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating superior efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing global demand while minimizing environmental impact. It avoids the use of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, making it more sustainable. The introduction of ZnO-based catalysts in PDH significantly boosts propene productivity by three times, matching selectivity levels of conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, under relevant industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is considered more efficient, making it an emerging and advantageous technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's ability to efficiently utilize shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds of light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a sustainable solution to meet the growing demand for propylene. It addresses feedstock availability issues faced by conventional methods relying on naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its higher selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, directly converts propane, distinguishing it from complex traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional methods that are energy-intensive and emit high CO2 levels. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively addressing challenges of conventional methods by minimizing coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It boasts superior process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through vanadium oxide catalysts, which outperform Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, offering competitive performance, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, highlights the limitations of conventional production methods in meeting the 116 million tons demand seen in 2020. Among alternatives, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising, offering high efficiency and environmental benefits. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from shale gas, making PDH the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers key advantages in propylene production: enhanced feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and improved efficiency and selectivity due to a more direct process. Developing a high-performance PDH catalyst further boosts these benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation and reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global demand for propylene by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the commonly used Pt-based catalysts have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, indicating a need for catalyst improvement to fully harness PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, utilizes Pt-based catalysts for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Its relevance has grown due to abundant propane from shale gas, highlighting its potential in utilizing these resources effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing growing global demand. These catalysts ensure good stability and high selectivity, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology, particularly with cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a sustainable solution. It overcomes conventional PDH hurdles, aligning with long-term industry needs by utilizing earth-abundant resources and promising PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity in converting propane directly to propylene, thus avoiding energy-intensive steam cracking. This method enhances resource efficiency and reduces environmental impact, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Its compatibility with existing facilities minimizes investment for retrofitting, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable propylene production with higher yields and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically viable option compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is driven by the shift to abundant light alkanes as feedstock. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles challenges like cracking and coking, improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective, non-toxic solution for propylene production, addressing global demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, boost catalytic activity and stability, further optimizing process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH's flexibility to handle various reactions, coupled with the growing demand for propylene and the price differential between propylene and propane, makes it a highly profitable solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, addressing a key challenge in propylene production. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. It utilizes widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, improving process efficiency. Despite being energy-intensive, increasing single-pass propane conversion reduces costs. Strategies to increase conversion include raising reaction temperature, lowering hydrocarbon and H2 partial pressures. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, making it a key method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, making it a cost-effective and environmentally friendly choice compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking to achieve high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improving efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, and offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation issues and COx production, which are drawbacks of oxidative dehydrogenation. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges, but PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it superior to conventional methods, addressing their limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology, like Catofin and Oleflex, for propylene production is driven by the growing global demand and low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Challenges, including high costs and environmental impacts, are being addressed through research into indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity. Efforts to optimize PDH involve investigations into various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, highlighting the technology's promise in overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, face challenges due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, which limit their development. Addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, PDH's advancement hinges on developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, offers higher selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, especially in regions with abundant propane. This addresses feedstock availability and meets growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a cleaner, more efficient method for propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, achieves higher propane conversion and propylene yield, and is cost-effective, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted process minimizes environmental impact and maximizes economic benefits, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a forecasted 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution for direct propylene production. Its advantage lies in producing propylene exclusively, enhancing product selectivity. The abundance of propane, a key feedstock, from shale gas condensates due to hydraulic fracturing technology ensures cost-effectiveness and availability, addressing conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, except in the Eurozone due to economic downturns, PDH technology stands out as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The abundance of cheap natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, has led to a shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., impacting propylene supply and prices. PDH, highly profitable due to the price differential between propane and propylene, offers an on-purpose technique that yields exclusive olefins, unlike conventional methods, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This addresses feedstock availability and environmental impact, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for feedstock, ensuring availability. It boosts efficiency by avoiding overoxidation, a common ODH issue. PDH's high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high selectivity and efficiency, surpassing conventional methods. Enhanced shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction have made propane abundant and cost-effective, making PDH a promising solution to meet the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as the sole feedstock and yielding propylene as the exclusive product. This streamlined process, bolstered by abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensures a cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge is underscored by lower production costs and high product selectivity, addressing the limitations of traditional methods that struggle to meet market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures, leads to issues like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly into propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propylene demand. It avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, improving efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, making it a promising solution for global propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct, economical, and efficient route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. As a commercially available process, PDH converts propane directly to propylene, reducing reliance on depleting petroleum resources. However, the endothermic nature and high-temperature requirements of PDH lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH catalysts with enhanced selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, making it a promising solution for sustainable propylene supply.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. Challenges with conventional catalysts, including health risks from CrOx and cost and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts, are being addressed. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most efficient process for meeting high propylene demand, excelling in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses conventional method challenges by resolving feedstock availability issues caused by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas, making it a key method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows flexible capacity and lower capital costs than conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising alternative for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing propylene demand by utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with petroleum depletion, PDH ensures process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step. This reduces dependence on costly naphtha, minimizes byproducts, and lowers energy use. PDH's modular plants offer flexibility and cut transportation costs, making it economically and environmentally superior to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene due to its endothermic reaction, which requires high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for optimal yields at high temperatures. This addresses conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yield and addresses challenges in propylene production by utilizing renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research priorities should include low temperature CO2 activation to develop lower energy routes to propene from green propane, transforming its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently closes the propylene supply-demand gap. It boasts high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity make it superior to scarce and toxic Pt- and Cr-based catalysts. The Zn@S-1 catalyst's high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity, highlights its potential for industrial PDH processes, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, outperforming conventional methods. Environmentally friendly catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing PDH's efficiency and relevance to global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking, addresses environmental issues by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst boosts PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, under industrial conditions, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, addressing energy intensity and the propene demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading technology in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane, abundant and stable compared to naphtha, to meet growing propylene demand. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, utilizing shale gas resources more effectively. This results in higher yields and selectivity, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, offering a viable alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. It enhances feedstock flexibility, improves process efficiency, and boosts product selectivity, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving higher efficiency, and minimizing CO2 and NOx emissions. It specifically tackles challenges by enhancing feedstock availability, reducing energy consumption, and improving product selectivity, making it a sustainable solution to meet escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst supported on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas, reduces reliance on oil-based sources, making it advantageous for propylene production. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits, coupled with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. It effectively tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional techniques. Propylene demand, essential for polypropylene and other industrial applications, reached over 116 million tons in 2020. Among alternatives, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced PDH's appeal by facilitating the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for feedstock, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. A highly active, selective, and durable catalyst boosts PDH's efficiency, making it a viable solution to meet market demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock flexibility, superior process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. By leveraging efficient CH bond activation and Pt-based catalysts, PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity underscore the need for catalyst enhancement in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing global demand for propylene. It offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, improve efficiency. PDH's leverage of shale gas for propylene production highlights its superiority in meeting current market needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its abundant propane feedstock, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH's use of relatively abundant propane makes it a viable alternative to conventional methods, which are constrained by fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a superior method, addressing the toxicity and high cost issues of conventional processes using Cr and Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH are highlighted for their effectiveness and the earth's abundant Co supply, making them a promising solution for new catalysts and enhancing long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, offers high selectivity and efficiency in propylene production. It surpasses traditional methods by avoiding energy-intensive steps, demonstrating potential for improved resource use and reduced environmental impact, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging affordable propane, enhancing feedstock availability. Its retrofit capability in existing facilities cuts investment costs. PDH boasts superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a viable solution to meet escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. It ensures a stable supply, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, is pivotal in propylene production. It addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite high energy demands and temperature challenges affecting alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy mitigates issues like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, confirming its role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic solution for propylene production, addressing global demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, underscoring PDH's promise in overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts, addressing conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and the technology's adaptability enhances profitability, given the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing the global demand for propylene. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustments and pressure control, enhancing process efficiency and selectivity. This outperforms conventional methods in feedstock utilization and product yield, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, serving as a vital supplement to conventional methods in light of growing global demand for olefins. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins, compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH, makes it a standout solution. Leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising method to meet the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, efficient, and high-yield method for propylene production, outperforming conventional methods in selectivity. Utilizing abundant propane, it tackles feedstock availability issues, reduces production costs, and minimizes environmental impact, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from diverse sources, overcomes propylene production challenges. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Enhanced propylene selectivity and direct propane conversion improve efficiency and reduce energy use and emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a selective process for propylene. Commercial PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts but face challenges with deactivation. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH can be carried out without oxidants, preventing the formation of thermodynamically stable products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are advantageous for propylene production due to their high stability and selectivity. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Ongoing research on catalysts like indium-based ones aims to further improve PDH efficiency, highlighting efforts to optimize this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising alternative to conventional methods, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial processes like Oleflex and Catofin are crucial in meeting propylene demand. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is key for PDH's advancement, addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene with higher yields and lower operating costs. It bypasses the limitations of conventional methods, boasting higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor. PDH's targeted conversion makes it a viable alternative, especially in regions with ample propane supply, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, enhances feedstock availability and directly targets propane conversion with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products. This makes it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene in a cleaner, more targeted process, ideal for meeting growing global demand while reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, excels by exclusively producing propylene, enhancing product selectivity. It benefits from abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock sourced from shale gas condensates, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. As propylene demand is forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is pivotal in meeting this increasing global need.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH as a key solution, leveraging fracking's enhanced shale gas extraction to slash gas costs and favor shale-based ethane over naphtha. This shift in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing prices and PDH's profitability, as seen in quote [6]. PDH's on-purpose technique, noted in quote [7], yields high-purity propylene, distinct from mixed olefins, optimizing for polymer-quality output, as confirmed in quote [8].", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane to propylene, offering a key advantage in feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates superior catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, effectively addressing the challenges of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in C3H6 selectivity (>95%) and regeneration stability, tackling product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Its anti-coke stability, influenced by the state of active Co species and surface acid property, suggests enhanced feedstock flexibility over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, is cost-effective and efficient, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Enhanced propane availability from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock for efficient propylene output. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's single-product focus and lower costs make it a competitive choice, overcoming the limitations of traditional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising on-purpose propylene production method. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, PDH employs nanostructured catalysts to enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity. PDH improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by directly converting propane to propylene, making it the most economical route. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that can cause side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions are crucial for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the need for alternatives to conventional methods in light of dwindling petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based methods in propylene production. Its significance grows with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading solution for propylene production amidst growing global demand. It effectively addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, unlike conventional methods. PDH is critical in balancing ethylene and propylene production, disrupted by the rise of ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propylene production, offering high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, ensuring high efficiency and reduced costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by utilizing abundant propane resources, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing propylene production's efficiency and selectivity while reducing dependence on costly naphtha. Its direct conversion process minimizes byproducts and energy use, leading to higher yields and lower costs than conventional methods. PDH's modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs. This technology ensures a stable propylene supply, lower environmental impact, and cost-effectiveness, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing the growing global demand for propylene, highlights the need for high-performance catalysts due to its endothermic nature. This technology overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, excels in high spacetime yield, addressing global propylene demand. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative methods, PDH avoids coke formation, and ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, mitigates overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally favorable, requires enhanced propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, prioritizing abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could revolutionize propene manufacturing, aligning with green chemistry principles.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to meet growing propylene demand. It achieves high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. It overcomes limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity faced by conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, and regeneration capability, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, effectively addresses the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. By achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, PDH demonstrates superior performance over conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing challenges like toxicity and ecologically harmful chlorine use. A new ZnO-based catalyst boosts propene productivity by three times compared to conventional methods, underlining PDH's efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable, cost-effective feedstock supply. It directly converts propane to propylene, significantly improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is more efficient and addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production, emerging as a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. Its catalytic processes efficiently convert propane to propylene with high selectivity and minimal byproducts, utilizing shale gas resources sustainably. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene make it a cost-effective and sustainable option, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a feedstock-independent production route that enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, tackling growing demand and conventional method limitations. It leverages abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability, and is more energy-efficient with lower CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's high selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, makes it a sustainable choice for meeting the increasing need for this vital raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental benefits over traditional propylene production methods, which are energy-intensive and emit significant CO2. Utilizing a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing issues of coke formation and sintering that are common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability and offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH demonstrate better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability than conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, contributing to its competitive edge, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as a promising solution. PDH offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, as well as the enhanced conversion of low-valued propane through advancements in hydraulic fracturing, underscore PDH's role in producing high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for direct production, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It enhances feedstock availability, potentially reduces costs, and boosts efficiency and selectivity, particularly through the development of advanced catalysts, making it a viable solution to meet demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation capability, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits make it a leading choice. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the limitations of conventional methods and meeting global demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, have short-term stability and selectivity issues, underscoring the need for catalyst improvement to fully harness PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses feedstock availability for propylene production. Its high-temperature process for propane conversion faces challenges with catalyst deactivation, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, improve process efficiency. PDH's potential in addressing feedstock availability and product selectivity challenges makes it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propene production, addressing the limitations of increasing propene demand in steam cracking. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with their onstream stability and high selectivity, suggest PDH offers a more direct and efficient route to produce propene compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane as feedstock to meet growing global demand more efficiently than conventional naphtha steam cracking. It excels in selectivity, producing fewer by-products, and is pivotal for chemical synthesis, addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology, particularly cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution. These catalysts, abundant and effective in PDH, tackle the challenges posed by conventional methods' toxicity and cost, ensuring long-term industry sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering greater efficiency and lower environmental impact than conventional methods. Its resource efficiency and product selectivity make it a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a retrofit-friendly solution to meet rising global propylene demand, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, boasts high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This method is more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable than oil-based processes, which have lower yields and require complex separation. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced oil dependency make it a promising solution for growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the shift to light alkanes, enhancing feedstock efficiency and product selectivity for propylene production. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking at high temperatures, the active site isolation strategy effectively improves selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, offers a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propylene production, critical for polypropylene and other industrial products. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content enhance catalytic activity and stability. PDH ensures feedstock availability, achieves high conversion rates, and has selectivity to propene under mild conditions, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike methods that heavily rely on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The affordability of propane feedstock, due to fracking technology, and the adaptability of PDH factories enhance its profitability, given the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing the growing global demand for propylene. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates, maximizing propane utilization. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion, reducing costs. By utilizing widely available propane and achieving high propylene yields with minimal by-products, PDH surpasses conventional methods in feedstock flexibility, efficiency, and selectivity, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a vital supplement for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging abundant shale gas resources. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH processes makes it advantageous. PDH's thermodynamic properties and endothermic nature offer process efficiency benefits, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency faced by conventional methods. The technology's unique properties ensure high selectivity towards olefins, making it a promising solution for increasing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane as feedstock, achieving high propylene selectivity and efficiency. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, yielding high propylene output with reduced byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds while minimizing CC cleavage. Direct propane conversion to propylene in PDH minimizes byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially decreases greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, making it advantageous for propylene production. Utilizing abundant propane from natural gas production, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. PtSn catalysts are efficient for propane dehydrogenation, though deactivation and stability remain challenges. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring higher selectivity for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, including materials like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based substances, and nanocarbon catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale gas, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies like Oleflex and Catofin are emerging as promising solutions for propylene production. These processes offer advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is highlighted by the challenges of high Pt costs and Cr toxicity in current PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more abundant and stable propane feedstock for propylene production, surpassing limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. It boasts higher energy efficiency, product selectivity, and process simplicity, reducing costs and enhancing sustainability. By specifically targeting propane conversion, PDH achieves higher propylene yields, making it a cost-effective and viable alternative in regions with ample propane supply, effectively addressing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich areas. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cleaner and more targeted. This technology is well-suited to meet the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its exclusive propylene production and efficient use of abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates. PDH's product selectivity and process efficiency, highlighted by the ability to enhance propylene yield, make it superior to conventional methods. As demand grows at 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's capabilities are pivotal in ensuring adequate supply.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging cost-effective shale gas as feedstock. Enhanced shale gas extraction has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas over traditional sources. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, escalating prices and bolstering PDH's market position. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price differential, currently advantageous. As an on-purpose technique, PDH excels in selective propylene production, achieving polymer-quality purity, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It excels in catalytic activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The CoSiBeta catalyst is a prime example, offering improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It avoids overoxidation issues, improving process efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes and ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, tackling product selectivity and process efficiency issues. Its anti-coke stability, attributed to the state of active Co species and surface acid property, enhances recycling PDH reactions, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high selectivity, lower energy use, and capacity to meet rising demand. Enhanced by advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, raw material propane becomes more abundant and cost-effective, boosting PDH's efficiency and economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as the sole feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as the single product, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods. The abundant and cheap light alkanes from shale gas make PDH cost-effective and competitive, meeting the growing global demand for propylene with its high process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges. Despite requiring high temperatures that affect selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the escalating demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical used in a wide array of products (Quote [1]). It directly converts propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter production route compared to conventional methods (Quote [3]). PDH addresses the limitations of dwindling petroleum resources, making it commercially viable. However, it faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation (Quote [6]). Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production. Its increasing significance is reflected in new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts pose health risks and suffer from Pt sintering. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts mitigate these issues, enhancing PDH's efficiency and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and selectivity, offering a solution to the imbalance caused by the rise of ethane cracking. PDH's feedstock flexibility and process efficiency directly address challenges faced by conventional production methods, making it a leading method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production with a notable conversion rate, reducing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, delivering high efficiency and cost savings.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production without depending on depleting oil reserves, offering a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, enhancing efficiency and selectivity while reducing byproducts and energy consumption. Modular PDH plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure. Its reliance on abundant propane, higher yields, and lower energy use make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, is poised to meet the escalating global demand for propylene. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, underscores PDH's superiority over conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It can utilize renewable green propane, offering a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts show promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally beneficial but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and explore more abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas, offers high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the global demand for propylene more efficiently and eco-friendliness than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a non-petroleum route for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. The scarcity and toxicity of current catalysts have led to exploring zinc, with Zn-4@S-1 showing 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, highlighting its industrial potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, offering about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity by approximately three times, matching selectivity, compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct propane-to-propylene conversion enhances product selectivity and efficiency, addressing the supply-demand gap for propene. Compared to conventional methods, PDH provides energy savings and is an emerging, non-oxidative route for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from sources like shale gas, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's ability to efficiently utilize shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds results in higher propylene yields, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a superior alternative to steam cracking and FCC. It enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a strategic solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, addresses growing propylene demand more efficiently than conventional methods, which rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH reduces CO2 and NOx emissions, enhances propylene selectivity, and offers a sustainable solution to traditional energy-intensive processes, making it a promising alternative for meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking for propylene production, using less energy and emitting less CO2. With a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing issues of coke formation and sintering common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH outperform Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These advancements, coupled with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, addressing limitations in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a surge in global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as a cost-effective and environmentally beneficial solution for propylene production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, further solidifying PDH's position as a key technology in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers key advantages in propylene production: improved feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of an active, selective, and durable catalyst further amplifies PDH's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address global propylene demand, though Pt-based catalysts, often used, exhibit short-term stability issues and suboptimal propylene selectivity, as noted in literature.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses feedstock availability challenges for propylene production. It requires high temperatures for propane conversion, making it endothermic. Pt-based catalysts, active but prone to deactivation by coke, necessitate frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency, highlighting PDH's role in overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an efficient alternative for propene production where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. This development addresses conventional method challenges by providing a direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology is favored for its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, outperforming conventional naphtha steam cracking. Its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production are critical as fossil energy consumption increases, addressing limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, particularly through cobalt-based catalysts. These address the limitations of conventional methods, such as chromium toxicity and platinum cost, by leveraging cobalt's earth abundance for long-term utility, thus supporting PDH industry growth.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering superior efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane as feedstocks, offers superior selectivity and efficiency, making it a leading solution for meeting global propylene demand. Its potential for retrofitting existing facilities further enhances its appeal over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply, higher yields, and energy efficiency compared to traditional methods like steam cracking, while minimizing byproduct formation, making it a sustainable and economically viable solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, emerges as a key solution for propylene production. It overcomes conventional method limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and risks of cracking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively boosts selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing major challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity, utilizing widely available feedstock. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with nickel, significantly improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH cost-effective and a superior alternative to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. As an on-purpose process, PDH targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon outputs. Cheap propane feedstock from fracking boosts PDH's efficiency, and its adaptability enhances its appeal. The significant price gap between propylene and propane, coupled with a growing market, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, addressing availability issues. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, showcasing an atom-economic reaction. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, PDH can approach ideal results with optimized catalysts and conditions. Though energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Its strategies, including temperature and pressure adjustments, are critical for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH's use of abundant propane, high efficiency, and selectivity with minimal by-product formation specifically addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. Its thermodynamic properties make it highly efficient, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures high selectivity toward olefins, making it a critical technology in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in increased yields and lower costs. This direct approach addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making it environmentally friendly and economically advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene selectivity and efficiency, operating under milder conditions than conventional steam cracking. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes byproducts, improves efficiency, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing global demand and conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. Propane sourced from abundant natural gas and shale gas serves as a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates at atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness over high-pressure methods. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR employ specific catalysts to optimize propylene yield, though catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. Efforts are underway to improve coke resistance and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global demand for propylene and the cost-effectiveness of shale gas-derived propane. Optimization through indium-based catalysts and research into Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, enhance PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane reserves in shale gas. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability and process efficiency, addressing product selectivity challenges faced by conventional methods. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in these processes limits PDH's potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock. This simplifies the process, reducing costs and energy consumption, and increases product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand, especially in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional naphtha or oil cracking methods. This sustainable and cost-effective approach minimizes by-products and environmental impact, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for meeting rising global propylene demand, directly produces propylene with high selectivity, unlike conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock from hydraulic fracturing, PDH boosts efficiency and product yield. Propylene demand, forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, underscores PDH's significance in ensuring supply.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology offers a solution by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has made shale gas extraction cost-effective, reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and highlighting PDH's potential. PDH's profitability is linked to the favorable price difference between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce mixed products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. The quest for a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst highlights its commitment to environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock. It avoids overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation methods. PDH's high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity and leveraging the abundance and lower cost of propane, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction. This makes PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, offers a streamlined process. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods. PDH's efficiency and lower production costs make it a competitive solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using advanced catalysts, excels in propylene production, tackling conventional methods' limitations. Despite its endothermic nature and high-temperature requirements, PDH's innovative catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It directly transforms propane with high selectivity, improving efficiency and product quality without the drawbacks of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can impair catalyst activity and stability in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical method for propylene production, crucial as demand rises and petroleum resources decline. It offers process efficiency and addresses conventional method limitations. However, high temperatures required for catalytic activity in PDH promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under these conditions is vital for industrial propylene production, as propylene is a key petrochemical building block. PDH is the most economical route for propylene production, commercially available through various licensing processes.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits and process efficiency over oil-based methods, addressing global propylene demand challenges. Its growing role in production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and suffer from deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, have been developed for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses challenges posed by shifts in ethylene production from naphtha to ethane, ensuring reliable propylene supply. PDH specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. The development of vanadium-based catalysts is crucial for PDH's success, providing high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making it a cost-effective and efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and the significant price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient propylene output without relying on depleting petroleum resources, making it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity, with lower costs and higher yields. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing the global demand for propylene, excels by developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts. This is critical due to propane dehydrogenation's endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures for high yields, thus overcoming conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH which requires regeneration. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, is promising but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. PDH's development could transform propene manufacturing, utilizing green propane for a key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offering cost-efficient and eco-friendly production with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst's high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity highlight its potential for industrial PDH processes. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is being explored as a catalyst alternative to enhance PDH technology's sustainability and efficiency, given the scarcity and toxicity issues of current catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by ensuring high activity, selectivity, and stability of cost-efficient catalysts. It achieves about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, encapsulating nanoparticles into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer to control size and prevent loss at high temperatures, making PDH an attractive solution for large-scale propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand with environmental benefits and improved efficiency. ZnO-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propene productivity, achieving about three times higher output under industrial conditions compared to conventional methods, as demonstrated by the ZnO-silicalite-1 catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, directly converting propane to propylene. This non-oxidative process offers superior efficiency and selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it sustainable and cost-effective. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in propane leads to higher propylene yields, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene, a key raw material for various products, by utilizing abundant propane for improved feedstock availability. It offers higher energy efficiency and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods, making it environmentally friendlier. PDH's enhanced product selectivity for propylene makes it a superior alternative, directly tackling the limitations of traditional production processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. By employing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability over oil-based methods. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, using vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity and stability compared to traditional Pt and CrOx catalysts. These advancements offer competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, effectively addressing challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional techniques. Its high conversion efficiency and environmental benefits make it particularly appealing, especially as advances in shale gas extraction promote the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene, as noted in Quote 4 and Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and direct propylene production without complex cracking. PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity, overcoming limitations of traditional methods. The development of an active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to meet global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts challenge stability and selectivity, affecting production efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, favored for propylene production due to abundant shale gas, addresses conventional method limitations. It tackles feedstock availability and boosts process efficiency, despite catalyst challenges. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are sought to enhance cyclic coke combustion stability, making PDH a promising solution to global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering a more direct and efficient route compared to conventional methods. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, particularly with the development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, which show good onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH a viable solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation. It directly addresses production constraints faced by conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking by offering enhanced feedstock availability, improved process efficiency, and better product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a viable alternative to conventional methods, addressing limitations like feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Co's earth abundance suggests long-term viability for PDH, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant propane directly into propylene with high selectivity, offers superior efficiency and reduced environmental impact, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and minimized byproducts. Its streamlined process reduces oil-based feedstock dependency and complex separation, making it a sustainable, cost-effective choice.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the availability of light alkanes from shale and natural gas, is advantageous for propylene production. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures that challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH effectively tackles these issues through an active site isolation strategy, significantly reducing side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic propylene production method, offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. It surpasses conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The incorporation of Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, reinforcing PDH's position as a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior product selectivity compared to conventional methods which struggle with lower selectivity and higher CO2 emissions. Its profitability is enhanced by the abundance of low-cost propane from shale gas and the expanding propylene market. PDH plants' flexibility to accommodate various reactions further cements its status as a leading choice in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, facilitated by hydraulic fracturing, to ensure feedstock availability for propylene production. Advanced PDH catalysts, exemplified by ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, significantly boost process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand for propylene. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH's optimized conditions and catalysts enable close approximation to ideal conversion rates, reducing equipment investment and operation costs. By adjusting temperature and pressure, PDH increases propane conversion, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and product yield, utilizing widely available propane as feedstock for high conversion rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a strategic solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties ensure process efficiency, while the selective activation of the CH bond over the CC bond enhances product selectivity. Compared to alternative pathways like methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH's unique properties make it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and advantageous compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for high propylene yields and minimal byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity and curb unwanted byproducts, while lower temperatures and pressures cut energy use and emissions, making PDH a sustainable, efficient propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, making it a promising method for propylene production. Propane, abundant due to natural gas production, serves as the primary feedstock. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global demand for propylene and low-cost propane from shale gas, highlights its advantages over conventional methods. PDH offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Research into catalysts, including indium-based and other materials, further enhances PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, including Oleflex and Catofin processes, is gaining prominence due to vast propane reserves in shale-gas deposits. PDH effectively addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative to conventional methods. However, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor, which reduces costs. Its efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, particularly in shale-rich areas. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cleaner and more targeted. This technology is well-suited to meet global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses global demand challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas condensates, rich in propane, are extracted on a massive scale due to hydraulic fracturing, making feedstock cheaper and plentiful. PDH's proprietary process exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, except in the Eurozone, PDH technology stands out as a solution, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Cost-effective shale gas extraction has lowered gas costs, making it a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and opening opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability hinges on the price gap between propane and propylene, aligning with current market conditions. Its on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, optimized for polymer-quality purity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity. Unlike costly and environmentally problematic CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity is pivotal in overcoming production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, distinguishing it from hybrid processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalysts' Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, highlighting PDH's efficient feedstock utilization compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, overcoming conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. Utilizing abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a single-feedstock/single-product process that enhances efficiency. It utilizes abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective raw material supply. PDH's lower production costs and simplified process make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet growing demand, as it leverages single feed (propane) and single product (propylene) advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Despite requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH bypasses intermediate steps, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct conversion process from propane, is a commercially viable and economical solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene. It offers an efficient alternative to conventional methods, less dependent on dwindling petroleum resources. However, the endothermic nature of PDH, requiring high temperatures, leads to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the equilibrium-limited reaction and the need for temperatures above 550 C.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production. Its significance grows with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key solution for meeting global propylene demand. PDH's ability to tackle these issues emerges as crucial, especially in the context of disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production from naphtha crackers due to the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Recent focus on PDH is due to shale gas exploration, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. The development of active, selective, and regenerative vanadium-based catalysts further boosts PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which are constrained by depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its economic advantage makes PDH a superior alternative to traditional production methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which struggle to meet market demand due to petroleum depletion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's efficiency and selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, PDH minimizes byproducts and energy use, offering higher yields and lower costs than multi-step processes. Its modular plants facilitate flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's abundant feedstock, high efficiency, and selectivity make it a superior economic and environmental choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, crucial for meeting growing global propylene demand, overcomes conventional method limitations through its endothermic reaction, requiring high-temperature conditions for high yields. The focus on developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by utilizing renewable green propane. Non-oxidative PDH avoids coke formation, requiring multi-reactor cycling for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. A new class of ODH-O2 catalysts using boron shows promise for selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future PDH catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand-supply gap. It offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient, thus preferred in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts, offers advantages over conventional propylene production methods by providing feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and superior product selectivity. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, a non-toxic and earth-abundant alternative to scarce and toxic traditional PDH catalysts, exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, making it a promising option for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, efficiently addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Notably, catalysts without non-noble metals achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, highlighting PDH's superior efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and productivity, achieving three times higher propene output at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane source. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, which often face energy consumption issues and a demand-supply gap. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances efficiency, making it a leading propylene production technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a stable and abundant feedstock, surpassing naphtha's limitations. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, utilizing propane from diverse sources, including shale gas, for sustainable and cost-effective production. PDH's selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields, meeting the escalating demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane for feedstock, achieving higher energy efficiency, reducing CO2 and NOx emissions, and offering superior propylene selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH's reliance on widely available propane enhances feedstock availability, while its direct conversion process minimizes byproducts, making it an environmentally friendly and efficient choice for meeting the increasing demand for propylene, a crucial chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining traditional naphtha cracking due to its energy efficiency and lower CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing issues of coke formation and sintering common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant shale gas, reduces reliance on oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global demand for propylene reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. It surpasses alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) by tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production, further bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing that promote propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, offers a more direct and cost-effective method for propylene production. It boasts better feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and improved selectivity over traditional methods. The development of a superior catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, has extended reactive longevity, and is eco-friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it an optimal choice for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity over conventional methods, yet Pt-based catalysts pose short-term stability and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process using high temperatures for propane conversion, is advantageous for propylene production, particularly with the increase in shale gas supply. It faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are required to withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration. PDH's use of abundant shale gas resources for propylene production highlights its potential over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing limitations of conventional propylene production methods. This highlights its advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. The development of novel catalysts in PDH technology overcomes issues with current industrial catalysts, such as high platinum costs and chromium toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, reduces by-products and offers a more efficient, selective process compared to naphtha steam cracking. As fossil energy consumption rises, PDH is a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene, a key chemical in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a viable solution. Conventional methods using Cr and Pt catalysts are hindered by toxicity and high costs, respectively. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, offer a promising alternative due to Co's earth abundance, ensuring long-term viability and addressing the need for new catalysts in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges. By avoiding energy-intensive steam cracking, PDH boosts propylene yields and offers environmental benefits, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by using cost-effective propane and butane, easily adapting existing facilities, and offering superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively tackling the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This streamlines production, making it a sustainable and economically viable alternative to traditional methods with lower yields and complex separation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, is a promising solution for propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively improves selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is critical for meeting global propylene demand. It offers cost and toxicity advantages, enhanced catalytic activity, and achieves high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, directly addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering key advantages over conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene, minimizing byproducts. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH facilities are versatile, capable of various reactions, which, combined with the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional propylene production methods. Utilizing advanced catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2 through an atom-economic reaction. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and catalysts enable PDH to closely approach ideal results. This energy-intensive process reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion, a key advantage over conventional methods. Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high propylene yield and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as a vital supplement to traditional methods amid escalating global demand. Leveraging the abundant shale gas, PDH ensures superior feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to conventional SC and FCC methods. Its thermodynamic properties and high selectivity to olefins, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, address challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's use of alkanes, particularly abundant in shale gas, specifically tackles these issues, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods by utilizing abundant propane feedstocks, offering higher propene selectivity for increased yields and lower costs, making it a sustainable and direct solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, stands out. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, minimizing CC cleavage and maximizing propylene selectivity. Direct propane conversion to propylene in PDH minimizes byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. The surge in natural gas production, including shale gas, provides a steady supply of propane, a crucial feedstock for PDH. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, though catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and operation conditions, with Catofin operating at lower pressure and Oleflex and STAR at higher pressures. Efforts are ongoing to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation, which are primary causes of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Ongoing research on catalysts, including indium-based and nanocarbon materials, aims to improve PDH technology's high stability and selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin processes, emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost and toxicity of catalysts in these processes pose challenges, underscoring the need for developing cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives to further PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, achieving higher propylene selectivity, and reducing energy consumption and costs. Its simplified process and targeted conversion enhance efficiency and yield, making it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offering higher efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. This direct conversion process minimizes by-products and maximizes economic benefits, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective choice, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. By turning low-value propane into high-value propylene, PDH effectively addresses the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, directly producing propylene without byproducts, addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, it utilizes abundant and cheaper propane feedstock. PDH's selectivity in producing only propylene boosts efficiency, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. With propylene demand projected to rise, PDH is crucial in meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking has slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability, which is driven by the propane-propylene price gap. PDH selectively yields propylene, optimized for polymer-quality purity, making it a favorable on-purpose technique.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand. The need for a green and cost-effective catalyst highlights PDH's potential to overcome environmental and economic challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency over ODH, and featuring high propylene selectivity that distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH advantageous for propylene production, particularly due to propane's abundant availability as a feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high selectivity, addressing inefficiencies of conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective, efficient solution to meet growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    