Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feed to directly produce propylene, offers a competitive solution to meet global demand. It leverages abundant light alkanes, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply, unlike traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods. PDH's advantages include a single product focus, wide availability of raw materials, and lower production costs, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, advancements in nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by better adsorbing propyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant and low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand amidst decreasing fossil oil resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods by being petroleum-independent and the most economical route. However, high temperatures required for catalytic activity in PDH promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is critical for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the challenges of maintaining high propylene yields and catalyst longevity.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental benefits and process efficiency for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing importance is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from CrOx and cost and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts. Recent eco-friendly developments include ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it an efficient process for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is cost-effective and efficient, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods. The use of vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, further enhances PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures a sufficient propylene supply, making it a promising solution for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's sustainability and cost-effectiveness. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption, thus improving efficiency and selectivity. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures for optimal yields, underscoring the significance of developing high-performance catalysts to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering high spacetime yields with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. With further development, PDH can transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing the global supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges. Zinc, as an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative, shows promise, particularly in Zn@S-1 catalysts, which exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making them suitable for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability through cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. By encapsulating NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves superior performance, with nearly 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after 6 hours, showcasing its ability to meet global propylene demand more effectively than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, boasting environmental advantages by avoiding toxic substances and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's benefits, showcasing triple the propene productivity at comparable selectivity relative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering stable and cost-effective propane as a feedstock. Its direct conversion process is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route makes it a leading technology in today's industry, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundant and stable supply of propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective feedstock over naphtha. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, utilizing propane from diverse sources, including shale gas. PDH boasts higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering a more efficient and feedstock-independent alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC. It ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, outshining conventional methods due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and reduced environmental impact. Unlike traditional processes that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it an eco-friendly choice. PDH's high selectivity for propylene, compared to the varied hydrocarbon outputs of conventional methods, makes it ideal for the increasing need for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outshining traditional naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. By employing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock, reduces reliance on oil-based sources and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for enhanced reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These catalysts are cost-effective, competitively performing, and less toxic, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH is cost-effective and environmentally beneficial, making it superior to conventional methods. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene, solidifying PDH's position as a preferred pathway.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas reserves, which offers better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. By directly producing propylene from propane, PDH reduces costs and enhances efficiency and selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's potential benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by efficiently activating CH bonds, offers an environmentally friendly approach to propylene production. Utilizing Pt-based catalysts, it enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity that conventional methods struggle with.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in meeting global propylene demand, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commonly used Pt-based catalysts in PDH face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, underscoring the need for PDH advancements to address these challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses global propylene demand by improving feedstock availability. Its focus on developing stable, anti-sintering catalysts enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to overcome limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it a preferred method for propene production. It directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as high costs and toxicity of other catalysts, providing a more efficient route to meet growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology is recognized for utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-product generation, directly overcoming the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with increasing needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample shale-gas propane reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a solution, particularly due to challenges with traditional catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance, offer long-term utility and address the need for new catalysts in the PDH industry, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive processes. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, surpassing traditional methods in feedstock management, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane, sourced from various petrochemical processes, and its higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Existing facilities can be easily adapted, avoiding significant investment. This technology directly addresses the challenges of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene conversion with high efficiency and selectivity, reducing byproducts. This streamlined, cost-effective, and sustainable process addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas, addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy requirements and risks of cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling the process's inherent challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective, nontoxic method for propylene production, addressing global demand. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Incorporating Ni into zinc-based catalysts significantly boosts catalytic activity and stability, critical for PDH's superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable, enhancing its economic appeal. PDH plants are adaptable, capitalizing on the price disparity between propylene and propane, and the growing propylene market, making PDH a highly profitable solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Enhanced by ZnO-based silicalite-1 catalysts, PDH boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, optimizing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a recent focus, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. Its atom-economy and endothermic nature, though limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can be optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions to closely achieve ideal results. PDH, despite being energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity while minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional methods, leveraging the abundant shale gas feedstock. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties ensure process efficiency, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity faced by conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The technology's ability to selectively activate CH bonds over CC bonds, while suppressing CC cleavage, is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially in PDH where propylene's lower stability requires careful catalyst selection. This ensures high product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, thus reducing production costs. This makes PDH an attractive route to meet global demand, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane and achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's high product selectivity, converting propane directly to propylene, is enhanced by Pt-based catalysts that effectively activate paraffinic CH bonds and minimize CC cleavage, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and ease of integration with existing technology. The abundance of propane from shale gas and natural gas production ensures a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with ongoing efforts to improve catalyst stability and resistance to deactivation. These advancements address the limitations of conventional propylene production methods, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. PDH, notably with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing research on various catalysts aims to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, particularly through Oleflex and Catofin technologies. However, the high cost of platinum and chromium toxicity in these processes underscore the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, addressing key challenges in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly into propylene, offers higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods, addressing feedstock limitations. Its single-reactor process reduces costs and energy consumption, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, especially in propane-rich regions, thus meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out by converting abundant, low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, addressing conventional production challenges. Unlike methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH ensures enhanced feedstock availability, higher process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective approach is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, making PDH a leading solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas condensates, PDH ensures exclusive propylene production without byproducts. Regulating reaction conditions boosts propylene selectivity and productivity. As propylene demand is projected to exceed production capacity, PDH's efficiency is crucial for global supply.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, making it a market favorite.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It offers high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods that face issues like high cost, environmental concerns, and rapid deactivation. PDH's green, low-cost catalyst maintains high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, overcoming challenges of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH excels in propylene production, leveraging cheap, plentiful propane from shale gas for feedstock. It boosts efficiency by preventing overoxidation and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Co species and Ti-tuned surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high propylene selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods. It's cost-effective and efficient, particularly as shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction have made raw material propane more abundant and cheaper, enabling PDH to effectively meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge includes lower production costs and high product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, as it addresses limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses global propylene demand by offering high yields. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, impacting C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. However, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by improving feedstock availability. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can decrease catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for growing propylene demand, addressing challenges in conventional production. It's an economical, direct conversion of propane to propylene, commercially viable through processes like Catofin and Oleflex. Despite requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for propylene production, highlighting the need for advanced catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts containing CrOx or Pt have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading method for propylene production. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, unlike conventional methods. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking has disrupted the balance, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH emerges as a solution, offering advantages in meeting the growing demand for propylene while managing feedstock constraints.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, boasting high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design offers flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, with high activity and selectivity for propylene, enhance PDH's efficiency, making it a superior alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient propylene supply without depleting oil resources, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry, where propylene is a vital building block for high-valued chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing feedstock availability and reducing reliance on expensive naphtha. Its single-step conversion process boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs. With high yields and lower operating costs, PDH is a sustainable, cost-effective solution that overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for meeting rising global propylene demand due to its endothermic reaction that necessitates high temperatures for high yields. Developing high-performance catalysts for PDH is essential, as it tackles the challenges of conventional production methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative processes, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, enhancing propene yield. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand gap. It offers high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and cost-efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Zn-4@S-1 catalysts, offers a promising solution to the global propylene demand, excelling in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst, with its high dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability, achieves exceptional propylene selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Its earth-abundance and non-toxicity make it a superior alternative to Pt- and Cr-based catalysts, highlighting PDH's advantages in meeting the growing global need for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability. Its design, featuring nanoparticles encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and eliminating the need for chlorine in catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and addresses the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it an emerging and advantageous technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH addresses challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Utilizing propane from shale gas sources makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, potentially offering higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced efficiency, environmental benefits, and better feedstock availability than conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane, reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks, and is more energy-efficient with lower CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's higher selectivity for propylene directly converts propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the challenges of conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. It utilizes a catalyst that enhances propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity and stability, significantly mitigating coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas resources for feedstock flexibility, reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, PDH offers superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. This makes PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a crucial industrial component, highlights the limitations of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a strategic solution, efficiently converting abundant low-valued propane into high-value propylene. PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it a promising pathway. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance propane utilization, addressing the 116 million tons demand in 2020.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its advantages include improved feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and selectivity over traditional methods. An advanced catalyst boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising propylene production alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It features efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the rising global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, it tackles the limitations of Pt-based catalysts, which are widely used but suffer from short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing demand for propylene by improving feedstock availability. It faces challenges with coke deposition, leading to catalyst deactivation, but anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are being developed to maintain stability during cyclic coke combustion, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity without the need for oxychlorination regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high propylene selectivity and stable operation, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods. As steam cracking cannot further increase propene output, PDH emerges as a viable alternative. Novel catalyst developments, driven by issues like high platinum costs and chromium toxicity, underscore PDH's potential benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation, directly tackling the challenges of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. As propylene demand surges, PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a viable solution. Conventional methods, hindered by toxicity and cost, are outpaced by PDH's efficiency and selectivity. Cobalt's earth abundance ensures long-term viability, addressing the need for new catalysts and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly converting propane with high selectivity and efficiency, outperforming conventional methods in energy use and propylene yield. It optimizes resource utilization and reduces environmental impact, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane and butane, readily available from petrochemical processes, and excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities minimizes investment, making it a viable solution for escalating global propylene demand, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and reduced byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based methods, making it a sustainable solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, driven by shale gas and natural gas availability, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates issues of selectivity and catalyst stability, as proven in practice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, offering high conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, provide cost-effective, nontoxic alternatives, improving catalytic activity and stability, thus addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that targets propylene directly, unlike conventional methods which rely on fossil fuels and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking revolution has significantly reduced the cost of propane feedstocks for PDH, enhancing its economic appeal. PDH's adaptability and the growing propylene market, coupled with the favorable price differential between propylene and propane, make it a highly profitable solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a critical advantage over conventional methods. Advanced ZnO-based silicalite-1 catalysts in PDH processes exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, significantly boosting efficiency and propylene yield, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2 through an atom-economic reaction. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates, addressing conventional production challenges. Increasing propane conversion under controlled temperature and pressure reduces costs and enhances selectivity. This technology, using widely available propane, improves process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, overcomes propylene production challenges. It operates under milder conditions, yielding high propylene with reduced byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene. This method boosts efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, cutting energy use and emissions, and offers superior product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, an abundant feedstock due to the shale gas boom, is utilized under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency. Challenges like catalyst deactivation and stability are being addressed through improved resistance to coke and protection of active sites. PDH avoids deep oxidation issues and COx production, making it more selective for propylene compared to oxidative dehydrogenation. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, with their specific catalysts and pressure conditions, showcase PDH's adaptability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology is driven by the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Ongoing research into catalysts like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology, notably the Oleflex and Catofin processes, emerges as a promising alternative to conventional methods. These processes, utilizing PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts respectively, address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies production, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant shale gas feedstock, specifically propane, to produce high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield compared to traditional methods. Its targeted conversion process is cleaner, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical component. Leveraging the abundance of shale gas condensates rich in propane, PDH ensures a plentiful and cost-effective feedstock. Its process efficiency and product selectivity are unparalleled, as it exclusively produces propylene without byproducts. This proprietary method is crucial given the forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand until 2035, outpacing production capacity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology offers a solution, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Increased demand, except in the Eurozone, and cost-effective shale gas extraction have lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, is currently favorable. PDH's on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, addressing the need for product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting abundant propane into value-added propylene. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity, as seen with the CoSiBeta catalyst, offer superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. This addresses the challenges of conventional production, including limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, preventing overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrates good regeneration stability in recycling reactions, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property are pivotal in enhancing selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction. This makes PDH superior for meeting escalating global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a single-feedstock/single-product process that boosts efficiency and selectivity. Unlike traditional methods using naphtha and coal, PDH leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas, meeting growing demand more effectively. Its wide raw material availability and lower costs make PDH a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, PDH offers high activity and yields. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant and low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods by addressing decreasing fossil oil resources, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and process efficiency as an alternative to conventional methods that face limitations due to dwindling petroleum resources. As a direct converter of propane to propylene, PDH is the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Addressing these challenges, particularly improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for the industrial production of propylene.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking and is expanding to meet global propylene demand. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx catalysts pose health risks due to Cr(VI), and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key on-purpose production method. The disruption caused by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking necessitates innovative approaches for propylene production, where PDH stands out as a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion rates, and minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, address limitations of conventional catalysts, enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a viable solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant propane supply and significant price gap between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without the constraints of depleting petroleum resources, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, PDH minimizes byproducts and energy use, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, characterized by its endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures for high yields, offers significant advantages over conventional propylene production methods. Its reliance on developing high-performance catalysts for activity, stability, and selectivity highlights its superiority in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges faced by traditional approaches.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr-based catalysts, offers high spacetime yields for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability through the use of renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron-based catalysts, shows promise for enhancing selectivity and activity. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity for CO2. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 catalysts need enhanced CO2 activation. Research should prioritize abundant chemical elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to transform propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production, achieving high selectivity with hydrogen as a by-product, effectively addressing the global demand and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt-, Cr-, and notably Zn-based catalysts like Zn-4@S-1, addresses the growing global demand for propylene. Zn-4@S-1 exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and achieves 97% propylene selectivity, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes and offering an advantageous alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, making it advantageous for meeting the global demand for propylene. A PDH catalyst achieved 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating its effectiveness in overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, eliminating the use of toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, achieving three times higher output than conventional methods under similar conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane feedstock. It excels in direct propane-to-propylene conversion, enhancing production efficiency. PDH surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing their energy-intensive nature and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, marking it as an emerging and advantageous technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a feedstock, ensures abundant and stable supply, surpassing naphtha's limitations. PDH's catalytic processes enhance efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Its ability to use propane from diverse sources, including shale gas, makes it sustainable and cost-effective. PDH offers higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, a vital raw material for various products. It improves on conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, being more energy-efficient with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and having higher selectivity for propylene. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts makes it an environmentally friendly and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability. It minimizes coke formation and sintering, addressing catalyst deactivation issues, unlike conventional methods that are energy-intensive and emit significant CO2.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant shale gas, enhances propylene production by reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. With 116 million tons of propylene demanded in 2020, PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over MTP and WGSR make it the preferred choice. Enhanced by shale gas conversion, PDH optimally utilizes low-valued propane, solidifying its position as the leading pathway for high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers key advantages over conventional propylene production methods. It boasts better feedstock availability, higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. Developing a superior catalyst for PDH could further amplify these benefits, making the process more direct and efficient for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It overcomes conventional method limitations through efficient CH bond activation, extended reactive longevity, and environmental advantages. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it an ideal solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods despite Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity issues, showcasing its promise in efficient production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Its ability to leverage increased propane supply addresses feedstock availability challenges. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, crucial for withstanding cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency by avoiding oxychlorination regeneration, a common issue in conventional methods. This highlights PDH's advantages in product selectivity and process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and onstream stability, making it an efficient alternative for propene production. It directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods, especially in meeting demand where steam cracking capacity is exceeded, suggesting PDH as a more direct route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-product generation. It offers a more efficient and selective process compared to conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, making it a viable option to address the challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst escalating global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas-derived propane reserves, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is gaining traction. PDH, operating at high temperatures, faces catalyst challenges, prompting innovation. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to cobalt's earth abundance, offer a promising solution, addressing the PDH industry's need for new catalysts, thereby enhancing long-term viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, converting propane directly with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers higher efficiency and lower environmental impact than traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane and butane from petrochemical processes, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing conventional method challenges. Retrofitting existing facilities is feasible, avoiding significant investment, making PDH a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using plentiful propane, excels in propylene conversion with high selectivity and minimal byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and cost-effective than traditional methods, ensuring stable production and reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks, making PDH a sustainable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to light alkanes, notably from shale and natural gas, addressing feedstock availability. Despite high energy demands and selectivity issues, PDH's challenges are mitigated by the active site isolation strategy, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, offer cost-effectiveness and nontoxicity, boosting catalytic activity and stability, thus addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and avoiding fossil fuel dependency and CO2 emissions, unlike conventional methods. Its use of affordable propane from fracking and adaptable factories enhances its appeal. The growing propylene market and favorable price differential make PDH economically advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas and efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, addresses feedstock availability, boosts process efficiency, and enhances product selectivity, yielding high propylene output and stability, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a recent focus, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its atom-economic reaction, despite being endothermic, is optimized through catalysts and conditions for high efficiency and selectivity. PDH's energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, specifically tackling conventional production challenges. It utilizes widely available propane, achieves high propylene yield with minimal by-products, and optimizes conditions for commercial viability and catalyst development, as evidenced by the strategies to enhance conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges by leveraging shale gas resources. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH, PDH offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamic properties and catalyst selectivity ensure high conversion rates, making it an effective supplement to traditional methods. PDH's ability to efficiently activate CH bonds without cleaving CC bonds is crucial for high olefin selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting growing propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It boasts higher selectivity to propene, leading to increased yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a superior process for propylene production. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources. It offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and seamless integration with existing technology. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but ongoing research aims to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids the deep oxidation and COx production issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Advancements include the investigation of alternative catalysts, such as indium-based ones, which show promise for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlighting efforts to enhance PDH technology's efficiency and address challenges faced by conventional production methods, specifically in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial processes like Oleflex and Catofin use PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively, but the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr highlight the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts to advance PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, offers a stable and abundant feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and simplified process, making it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods reliant on naphtha or heavier oil. Its high efficiency and selectivity, with minimal by-product formation, make PDH a cleaner and more targeted process, particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, offers key advantages over conventional processes. It leverages abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, sourced from shale gas condensates via hydraulic fracturing. PDH's exclusive propylene output enhances product selectivity, crucial for meeting the projected 2-3% annual growth in global propylene demand until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking (quote 2) slashed gas costs (quote 3), favoring shale gas as feedstock. The shift to ethane in steam cracking (quote 4) reduced propylene supply, hiking its price. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap (quote 6), thriving in current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique (quote 7), PDH yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed-product conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's focus on a green and low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores its advantages in product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficiently inhibiting overoxidation, and offering high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The active Co species, influenced by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, overcoming conventional methods' issues of high energy consumption and low selectivity. Leveraging the abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers an efficient solution to the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to yield propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs and process simplicity, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing conventional challenges by enhancing feedstock efficiency and product selectivity. However, high temperatures required for PDH can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, affecting propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant, low-cost propane directly into high-value propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. By directly converting propane, PDH avoids intermediate steps and undesired side reactions, improving efficiency and selectivity. This process utilizes propane as a key raw material for chemical production, making it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct and economical route for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and scarcity of petroleum resources. Commercially available processes like PDH bypass conventional limitations, making propylene, a key petrochemical, more accessible. However, the high-temperature requirement for PDH catalysis presents challenges in propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, necessitating the development of more efficient catalysts for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based cracking, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its role in propylene production is expanding, as evidenced by new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, address these challenges by showing high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a prime solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene. Unlike traditional methods, PDH tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, proving its superiority in large-scale propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate from propane to propylene, minimizing by-product formation. PDH's modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, it offers advantages over conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, with lower costs and higher efficiency. Vanadium-based catalysts are emerging as a promising option due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, addressing the need for novel non-noble metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on its price differential with propylene, effectively addresses the global demand for propylene. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with dwindling petroleum resources, by ensuring sufficient propylene supply, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges by reducing reliance on costly naphtha, enhancing efficiency and selectivity through direct propane-to-propylene conversion, and minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs, ensuring lower operating costs, higher yields, and sustainability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-activity catalysts for propane dehydrogenation at high temperatures, offers key advantages over conventional methods. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, and unlike oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2), it avoids overoxidation risks. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future PDH catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas, offers high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing global demand and conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an alternative to non-petroleum-based propylene production methods, addressing challenges in conventional processes. By employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity. The exploration of zinc as a catalyst highlights its potential as an earth-abundant, non-toxic alternative, further solidifying PDH's viability in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, PDH catalysts, sans non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after 6 hours at 600C, underscoring its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, mitigating environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration. The introduction of ZnO-based catalysts enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and efficiency, showcasing a threefold increase in propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and addresses the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances product selectivity, making it a superior choice in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, and utilizes shale gas resources sustainably. PDH is cost-effective, providing higher propylene yields and selectively activating CH bonds for increased production, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative to steam cracking and FCC processes for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock for enhanced availability, achieving higher energy efficiency, and significantly reducing CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene ensures superior product selectivity, making it a prime solution for the increasing global demand for propylene, while addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking which is energy-intensive and emits CO2. PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing common issues of coke formation and sintering faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, excels in propylene production, particularly in shale gas-rich areas, by minimizing dependence on oil-based feedstocks. It offers superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. These attributes, coupled with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, make PDH a leading solution to the global propylene demand, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "To address the soaring global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out as a superior production method. It optimizes feedstock use, process efficiency, and product selectivity, crucial for meeting the 2020 demand of 116 million tons. Compared to MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it ideal for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted propane conversion, leveraging shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers key advantages over traditional methods, including better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity, making it an attractive solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt-based catalysts, excels in propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges, making it an efficient and environmentally friendly choice for meeting the global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to meet global propylene demand, offering superior feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity over conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, a common PDH component, have short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses conventional production challenges by improving process efficiency and product selectivity, despite facing issues with catalyst deactivation. Research on anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts enhances PDH's potential, enabling cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity and process efficiency, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with their onstream stability and high selectivity, address the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH an attractive alternative to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock to enhance efficiency and selectivity. It minimizes by-products and overcomes the constraints of fossil energy-dependent processes like naphtha steam cracking, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and shale-gas abundance, PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a solution to conventional methods' challenges. Conventional processes, like Catofin and Oleflex, struggle with Cr toxicity and high Pt catalyst costs, limiting industry growth. Cobalt's earth abundance in PDH catalysts suggests long-term viability, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive steps, offering better resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane as feedstocks, offers a retrofit-friendly solution to existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, overcoming conventional method limitations. It ensures stable supply, higher yields with reduced byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and cost-effective, making it a sustainable choice.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a key solution for propylene production, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to abundant shale and natural gas (Quote 2). It overcomes conventional method limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures (Quotes 1, 3, and 4), PDH's challenges are effectively managed through the active site isolation strategy (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the global demand for propylene, crucial for polypropylene and industrial products. It leverages zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni for lower cost, nontoxicity, and enhanced catalytic activity. PDH uses abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, addressing conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. As an on-purpose process, PDH targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon products. Propane, a PDH feedstock, is now cheap due to fracking, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, driven by the propylene-propane price gap and expanding market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, addressing feedstock availability. Utilizing efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, yielding high propylene output with stability, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal states with optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Key advantages include enhanced product selectivity and the ability to increase propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments, reducing costs. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates, and minimizing by-product formation, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective alternative to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation pathways. Leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties ensure process efficiency, making it a viable and advantageous method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges. Its higher selectivity to propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and advantageous approach.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases to meet growing propylene demand. It operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It leverages the abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas, operating under atmospheric pressure for enhanced efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process. Commercial PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with efforts focused on improving catalyst resistance to coke and preventing active site aggregation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, focuses on optimizing indium-based catalysts for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research into a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, aims to enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane in shale-gas, PDH technology, using Oleflex (PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst) and Catofin (Cr/Al2O3 catalyst), offers solutions to feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges. However, high Pt costs and Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential, highlighting the need for eco-friendly, cost-effective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and stable propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, targeting propane conversion for higher yields and potentially lower operating expenses, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for increasing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution, particularly in shale gas-rich areas. This results in a cleaner, targeted production process, better meeting demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, directly producing propylene without byproducts, excels in product selectivity. Shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing ensures abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is pivotal in meeting this increasing need.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, shifting U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to abundant, cheaper ethane. However, this shift primarily boosts ethylene, not propylene, leading to a supply drop and price hike for propylene. PDH benefits from the propane-propylene price gap, making it profitable under current market conditions. Unlike conventional methods, PDH exclusively produces polymer-quality olefins, highlighting its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant propane into high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity highlight enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, making PDH pivotal in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The active Co species' state and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, effectively addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, surpassing conventional methods' low selectivity and high energy consumption. With abundant and lower-cost propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. Its efficiency, bolstered by abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, directly addresses the limitations of traditional methods. PDH's competitive edge, highlighted by lower production costs and a wide source of raw materials, makes it a preferred choice to meet the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. It addresses conventional method challenges, especially at high temperatures, by improving efficiency and selectivity through nanostructured catalysts that enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane as feedstock, converting it directly to propene with high selectivity. This addresses the challenges of dwindling fossil oil resources and growing propene demand, unlike conventional methods. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by skipping intermediate steps and minimizing unwanted side reactions, making it economically viable.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, offers economic and process efficiency benefits, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods. It provides an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources, converting propane to propylene economically and efficiently. However, high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, as highlighted by the equilibrium-limited nature of the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based methods, addressing sustainability and growing in contribution to propylene production. Conventional CrOx or Pt catalysts have health and cost issues, but recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a key solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, emerging as a promising method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propylene production, boasting high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regenerative properties, are ideal for PDH, an on-purpose non-oxidative process, benefiting from advancements in shale gas exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on depleting oil reserves, offering a viable alternative to traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy use. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology optimizes propylene production, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. By developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, PDH offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) have emerged, with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts showing promise but facing overoxidation issues. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas as a cheap feedstock, offers high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the growing global demand for propylene. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process is advantageous due to the availability of propane from shale gas, which can be converted into propylene with high efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc as an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative to Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity and achieves 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes and superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cost-effective and eco-friendly catalysts, boasts high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, overcoming conventional propylene production challenges. Demonstrating its promise, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, addressing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's environmental compatibility, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, directly converts propane to propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. This non-oxidative route addresses conventional method challenges, offering a stable, cost-effective, and emerging solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by leveraging abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of shale gas resources makes it more sustainable and cost-effective, potentially yielding higher propylene selectivity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering a feedstock-independent alternative to traditional processes. It enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process optimization, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to meet the rising demand for propylene, a vital raw material for numerous products. By utilizing propane, PDH ensures a steady feedstock supply, unlike conventional methods that rely on limited naphtha and crude oil. It is more energy-efficient, emitting fewer CO2 and NOx pollutants, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it an eco-friendly and efficient choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking by using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, achieving high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability. This minimizes coke formation and sintering, reducing catalyst deactivation, and directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas resources, offers competitive performance in propylene production with enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts, key to PDH, achieve superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods in terms of cost, toxicity, and feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "With global propylene demand soaring to 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the most promising production method. PDH offers cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it superior to alternatives like MTP and WGSR for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas into propylene, further solidifying PDH's position in meeting demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing growing demand. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a selective PDH catalyst further improves efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental impact. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its potential to meet rising global propylene demand, offers key advantages over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, while common in PDH, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, underscoring the need for catalyst improvement in this promising process.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing demand for propylene by converting propane at high temperatures. Challenges with Pt-based catalyst deactivation necessitate frequent regenerations, highlighting the need for stable, anti-sintering catalysts to improve efficiency. PDH's use of shale gas showcases its advantage in product selectivity and feedstock availability, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising method for propene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, making it an attractive alternative in light of growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers lower by-product generation and higher efficiency, making it a sustainable and effective solution for increasing propylene production. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, ensuring selectivity and meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and increased propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, enhance PDH's efficiency and sustainability, making it a leading choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, efficiently converts propane into propylene, offering superior resource utilization and a lower environmental footprint than conventional methods. This makes PDH a viable solution to meet global propylene demand, tackling challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cheap propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene. It addresses challenges by utilizing existing facilities, enhancing its viability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and higher yields through less complex separation processes, while minimizing byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite high energy demands and selectivity challenges, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates issues of cracking and deep dehydrogenation, as evidenced by advancements in the field.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, meets global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, making PDH superior to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by utilizing cheap propane-rich shale gas, made possible by fracking. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price difference between propylene and propane, and the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, addressing feedstock availability. It employs efficient catalysts, notably ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, ensuring high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, recognized for its atom-economy in converting propane directly to high-value propylene and H2, offers key advantages over conventional propylene production methods. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable PDH to closely achieve ideal results, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH ensures feedstock availability and high conversion rates, addressing conventional method challenges. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring practical application. This technology reduces equipment and operation costs, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages abundant shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. Efficient and selective activation of the CH bond in PDH is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower production costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its ability to address challenges faced by conventional methods. The surge in natural gas production, including shale gas, ensures a steady supply of propane, a key feedstock for PDH. This technology offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology, making it more efficient and cost-effective. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology is driven by the global demand for propylene and the cost-effectiveness of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Ongoing research into catalysts like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising alternative to conventional methods. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution. Commercial PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, use specialized catalysts, but the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly alternatives remains a key area of focus.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and stable propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This sustainable and cost-effective method targets higher yields, making it a viable alternative in regions with ample propane supply and an efficient option for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to directly produce high-value propylene. This method offers higher process efficiency and selectivity, targeting propane conversion with minimal by-product formation, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for direct propylene production, offers enhanced selectivity by producing propylene without byproducts. The advent of hydraulic fracturing has made shale gas condensates, rich in propane, easily extractable, ensuring a plentiful and cost-effective feedstock. With propylene demand projected to grow at 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial in meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology is a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The cost-effective extraction of shale gas has led to a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking, resulting in a drop in propylene supply and a price surge. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity olefins, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant propane to propylene, addresses feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly with CoSiBeta catalysts, outperforms conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's green, low-priced catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene overcome traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH's proprietary technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock. It enhances efficiency by inhibiting overoxidation, surpassing oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, directly addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species and surface acid property of the catalysts enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing inefficiencies of conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant propane, PDH ensures efficient production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene as the sole product. This streamlined process, bolstered by abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, ensures a cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs and efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, improving feedstock availability. PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst activity and stability. Its direct conversion of propane to propene improves process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable solution for the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical used in various products. As conventional methods face challenges with feedstock availability and efficiency, PDH directly converts propane to propylene more economically. However, the process is endothermic and requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which impact propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under these conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and cost issues, with Pt catalysts prone to deactivation and requiring harmful Cl2 treatment. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency in meeting high propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene demand, but ethane cracking's surge disrupted this, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH addresses this by effectively managing feedstock availability and ensuring process efficiency, making it a leading method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, ensuring high efficiency and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price gap to propylene, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Unlike traditional methods that struggle with petroleum depletion, PDH ensures sufficient production, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing efficiency and selectivity through direct conversion with minimal byproducts. This results in lower energy consumption and higher yields, making PDH economically and environmentally superior. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing the growing global demand for propylene, excels in developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts. This tackles the endothermic reaction's requirement for high temperatures, making PDH a promising method that improves on conventional production's limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and offering improved selectivity to propene. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, reduces coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements to ensure sustainability and transform propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets rising propylene demand, leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas. It offers eco-friendly, high-selectivity production with valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an alternative to non-petroleum-based production. Zinc-based catalysts, like Zn@S-1, show good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH an efficient and environmentally friendly process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, featuring a catalyst with encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. This catalyst controls ZnO NP size, preventing loss at high temperatures, and achieves a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating its effectiveness in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, boasting environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. ZnO-based catalysts enhance PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as demonstrated under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, directly converting it to propylene with high efficiency. This process consumes less energy, enhancing product selectivity and narrowing the propene demand-supply gap, making PDH an emerging, efficient solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundant and stable propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, to produce propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. By utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, PDH offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs compared to traditional techniques. This process efficiently utilizes shale gas resources and selectively activates CH bonds of light alkanes, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene efficiently, offering an alternative route that bypasses traditional feedstock-dependent processes. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas for better feedstock availability. It's more energy-efficient and eco-friendly, with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing the limitations of traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil. PDH's high product selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts, makes it ideal for meeting the escalating global demand for this crucial chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, utilizing a catalyst, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing common issues like coke formation and sintering, which lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock, reduces oil dependence and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. This makes PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution for meeting global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production, surpassing alternatives like MTP and WGSR. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion from shale gas, reinforcing PDH's position as a leading solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its key advantages are superior feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity over conventional methods. An advanced catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to conventional methods. It efficiently activates CH bonds over CC bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH further boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, but faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, as highlighted in the quote.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the global demand for propylene by offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and product selectivity. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, PDH's ability to leverage shale gas resources provides a significant edge in meeting the growing demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with good onstream stability and high selectivity, address the limitations of current technologies, making PDH an attractive alternative for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, efficiently addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods, such as naphtha steam cracking. It offers improved process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas reserves, offers a viable solution to meet rising global propylene demand. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with the toxicity of Cr and high Pt costs in catalysts. PDH's use of earth-abundant Co-based catalysts ensures long-term viability and efficient propylene production, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. By bypassing energy-intensive processes, PDH enhances resource use and reduces environmental impact, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane feedstocks, sourced from various petrochemical processes, and its ease of retrofitting existing facilities. It excels in higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional methods and making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, ensures stable propylene production with higher efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and costs compared to steam cracking. This sustainable method optimizes resource use and simplifies production, addressing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas availability, addresses conventional method challenges. Despite high energy intensity and reaction temperatures affecting selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy mitigates issues like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, enhancing its appeal for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing conventional production challenges. Zinc-based catalysts, cost-effective and non-toxic, outperform Pt and Cr-based alternatives. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts catalytic activity and stability, underscoring PDH's efficiency and viability for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by offering a targeted, on-purpose process that enhances propylene selectivity. Unlike traditional methods, which are fossil fuel-dependent and emit CO2, PDH benefits from cheap propane feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology. This makes PDH economically viable and highly profitable, especially considering the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, and employs high-efficiency ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, which enhance catalytic activity, stability, and selectivity, thereby improving process efficiency and product yield in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of research and commercial application, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Its atom-economic reaction, despite being endothermic and limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, is optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by increasing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and maintaining high propylene yield with low by-product formation, overcoming conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It serves as an effective supplement, leveraging the abundant alkanes in shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties ensure high efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from propane, offering higher selectivity and increased yields. It utilizes abundant propane sources, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency, and is more environmentally friendly, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for propylene production, operating under milder conditions to achieve high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, while direct propane conversion boosts efficiency and may lower greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from shale gas provides a steady feedstock supply. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, offering superior selectivity for propylene compared to oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing challenges in propylene production. Ongoing research into catalysts, including nanocarbon, highlights PDH's promise.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology using Oleflex (PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst) and Catofin (Cr/Al2O3 catalyst) processes has emerged as a promising solution. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit its development, underscoring the need for more cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor design enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it sustainable and cost-effective. PDH's energy efficiency and targeted propane conversion result in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, addressing conventional method challenges and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from shale gas, addresses propylene production challenges by converting low-value feedstock into high-value propylene, making it sustainable and cost-effective. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity, with minimal by-products, result in a cleaner, more targeted production process, crucial for meeting global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock plentiful and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, not hybrid products, enhances selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights the advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Enhanced fracking techniques have unlocked abundant shale gas reserves, significantly lowering feedstock costs. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene output, increasing its price and enhancing PDH's profitability, which is heavily influenced by the propane-propylene price differential. PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional mixed-product methods, making it a favorable solution in the current market conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It excels in catalytic activity and selectivity, notably with the CoSiBeta catalyst, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike supported CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly, environmentally impactful, and prone to rapid deactivation, PDH's pursuit of a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene tackles product selectivity and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, preventing overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing conventional method challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. The active Co species and surface acid property, enhanced by Ti, contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-efficient and effective solution to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering single-feedstock simplicity and single-product efficiency, leveraging abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Its competitive edge lies in lower production costs, making it a viable solution to meet growing propylene demand, as highlighted by its single feed (propane) and single product (propylene) process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene. It boasts high activity and yields, yet faces challenges like coking and sintering due to its endothermic nature. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, improve adsorption of propyl intermediates, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It utilizes abundant propane, enhancing efficiency and selectivity without intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in meeting growing propylene demand amidst decreasing fossil oil resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical solution for the increasing global demand for propylene, offering a shorter conversion route from propane. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods by not depending on dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH is the most cost-effective propylene production method. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring temperatures above 550°C, which can cause cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas, addressing feedstock limitations. Its role in propylene production is expanding, with new plants under construction. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and deactivation issues. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. PDH ensures adequate propylene supply without compromising quality, recognized as the most efficient process to meet large-scale demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, with high activity and regeneration ability, address limitations of conventional methods in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price differential between propane and propylene, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. By not depending on dwindling petroleum reserves, PDH ensures a sufficient supply of propylene to meet escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, tackling global demand and conventional method challenges. Its endothermic reaction necessitates high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for high yields, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses challenges in conventional propylene production by offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It can utilize renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation issues. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents coke but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements to address scarcity. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand, offering high selectivity to propylene and valuable hydrogen by-product. Its eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred alternative to conventional methods, directly tackling the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, tackling the limitations of conventional methods. Zinc, an abundant and non-toxic metal, is explored as a catalyst alternative, addressing the scarcity and toxicity issues of current components. Notably, Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity, showcasing PDH's efficiency and selectivity advantages for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional methods. It achieves about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating its efficiency and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant feedstock, like natural gas and shale gas, offering a stable and cost-effective source for propylene production. It directly transforms propane to propylene efficiently, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the demand-supply gap. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a current and advantageous technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH improves efficiency and selectivity, particularly when utilizing shale gas resources. This method potentially achieves higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an efficient and selective alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process limitations, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock for enhanced availability, superior efficiency, and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, addressing the growing global demand and environmental concerns of high energy consumption and emissions in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative to energy-intensive naphtha cracking for propylene production. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing common catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, thus outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, offers improved feedstock availability, especially in shale gas-rich regions, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. This results in competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, is a leading method for meeting the high global demand for propylene, which reached 116 million tons in 2020. Advances in hydraulic fracturing enhance propane conversion, further promoting PDH's use in addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, offering better feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods, thanks to the development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst. This makes PDH a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods. PDH also provides environmental benefits and efficient CH bond activation, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, central to PDH, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, a key challenge in enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing abundant shale gas, offers enhanced feedstock availability for propylene production. It faces challenges with coke deposition on Pt-based catalysts, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, improve PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane, addressing the growing global demand. These catalysts provide onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH an attractive alternative that overcomes challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging shale-gas-derived propane reserves. Current PDH processes, hindered by toxic Cr and costly Pt catalysts, necessitate innovation. Cobalt-based catalysts, due to their performance and the abundance of Co, offer a sustainable PDH alternative, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high selectivity in converting propane directly to propylene. It boasts efficient resource use and a reduced environmental impact, making it superior to traditional methods by avoiding energy-intensive processes with lower yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and efficiency, directly addressing conventional method limitations, making it a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, overcoming feedstock scarcity, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity. Compared to conventional methods, PDH is more sustainable and economically feasible, boasting higher propylene yields and reduced byproduct formation, making it a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and increased natural gas availability, addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, is a promising solution for increasing propylene production. It boasts high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced for cost-effectiveness and stability, further boost PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes the limitations of conventional fossil fuel-dependent methods with low propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology, and its factories are adaptable for various reactions. This makes PDH highly profitable, given the price differential between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thus improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2 (Quote 3), addressing global demand. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal outcomes (Quote 4). PDH's high energy consumption is offset by its potential to reduce costs through increased propane conversion, a key to reducing equipment investment and operation costs (Quote 6). Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring practical relevance (Quote 9). PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, serving as a vital supplement to conventional production methods. Its exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike alternative pathways, makes it advantageous, especially considering the large-scale exploitation of shale gas. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties contribute to process efficiency. Efficient catalysts are critical for high selectivity toward olefins, particularly in PDH, given propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It boasts higher propene selectivity, leading to increased yields and reduced costs, while being environmentally friendly, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a flexible feedstock option, utilizing widely available propane. It operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The process directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproduct formation. Lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology. Leveraging abundant and economical propane from natural gas and shale gas, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, offering energy efficiency and cost savings over high-pressure methods. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use distinct catalysts and pressures, with Catofin at low pressure, Oleflex at 13 bar, and STAR at 56 bar. Ongoing research aims to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation, addressing key challenges in PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, despite challenges, are being improved through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, offering high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional production challenges and meeting market demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin, utilizes abundant propane feedstock from shale-gas deposits for efficient production. These processes address conventional method challenges by maximizing feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt in Oleflex and Cr toxicity in Catofin highlight the need for more cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, offers greater availability and stability compared to conventional naphtha and heavy oil methods. It's more energy-efficient, has higher propylene selectivity, and simplifies the process, making it cost-effective, especially in regions with abundant propane. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, particularly from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global propylene demand. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly utilizes abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's role in direct, byproduct-free production, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing increases propane availability, lowering feedstock costs. PDH's exclusive propylene output and optimized selectivity address conventional production's limitations, crucial for future needs with demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights the advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH, being on-purpose, exclusively yields propylene, optimized for polymer-quality purity, making it highly profitable under current market conditions where the price difference between propane and propylene is favorable.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, offering feedstock advantages. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's focus on a green, affordable catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene addresses environmental concerns and product selectivity, distinguishing it from traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane, efficiently preventing overoxidation, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts non-noble metal Co-based catalysts' performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. This addresses product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for propylene production, potentially offering feedstock availability advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient method for meeting global propylene demand. Utilizing abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH addresses limitations of conventional production methods, particularly in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    