Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant raw materials from unconventional natural gas, ensuring cost-effectiveness and a steady supply. Compared to traditional methods, PDH offers lower production costs, making it a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. As an endothermic process, PDH faces issues like coking and particle sintering at high temperatures. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, an affordable feedstock. This process, while endothermic and equilibrium-limited, avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, improving catalyst activity and stability. PDH enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propene, reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical used in various products. As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter production route. This technology is commercially viable, addressing the limitations of dwindling petroleum resources. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks: Cr(VI) toxicity and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, addressing the limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH addresses the challenges of conventional production methods by ensuring better feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a leading on-purpose method for propylene production. The shift in industrial demand from naphtha crackers to ethane and shale gas cracking has disrupted the balance, necessitating efficient propylene production methods. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, meets the large demand for propylene, effectively tackling the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the price gap between propane and propylene. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, by ensuring feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas production, addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. It reduces dependence on expensive and less available naphtha, offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, and can be implemented in smaller, modular plants for flexible production. PDH's use of propane ensures stable supply, while its direct conversion process results in higher propylene yields and lower energy consumption, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option compared to traditional steam cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's focus on developing high-performance catalysts for propane dehydrogenation addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. The endothermic nature of the reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the importance of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity in PDH, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH can utilize renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are also being explored, with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts showing promise. However, ODH-CO2 catalysts have lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It leverages widely available, cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising route for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts lead to the exploration of alternative, non-toxic, and earth-abundant metals like zinc. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, demonstrating PDH's potential to efficiently meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. Catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing PDH's efficiency and selectivity in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, maintaining high selectivity, demonstrating PDH's superiority in addressing global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cheap feedstock source. Direct transformation of propane to propylene increases efficiency and selectivity, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has emerged as a promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH potentially offers higher propylene yields and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, improving energy efficiency, and reducing CO2 and NOx emissions. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha and crude oil, PDH offers higher product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and efficient choice for meeting the growing global demand for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional naphtha cracking's high energy demand and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability over conventional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in traditional plants, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These advantages contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional techniques. The PDH process, favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental impact, is bolstered by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, enhancing the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas. This process is pivotal in meeting the significant demand for propylene, estimated at around 116 million tons in 2020.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering improvements over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for more efficient and selective alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's compatibility with shale gas feedstock highlights its advantage over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propylene production, offering potential advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with good onstream stability and high selectivity, are being developed for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane. This addresses challenges faced by conventional methods, particularly in meeting growing propylene demand where steam cracking cannot further increase production. The development of these catalysts aims to overcome drawbacks of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and reduced by-products. As a key chemical precursor, propylene's demand is outpacing conventional production methods like naphtha steam cracking, which are constrained by fossil energy consumption. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a superior alternative, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and process limitations faced by traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key technology. PDH processes, typically using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, prompting a search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane as feedstocks, which are widely produced by petrochemical processes. It can be easily retrofitted into existing facilities, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to traditional methods, PDH is more sustainable and economically viable, with higher propylene yields and minimized byproduct formation, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures, while challenging for selectivity and catalyst stability, are mitigated by the effective active site isolation strategy, reducing side reactions like cracking and deep dehydrogenation that lead to C1 and C2 molecule production and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, crucial for various industrial products. Zinc-based catalysts with Ni introduction enhance catalytic activity and stability, addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. With fracking technology, PDH benefits from cheap propane-rich shale gas as feedstock. Its adaptable factories can run various reactions, making PDH highly profitable due to the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, with high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing single-pass propane conversion. Strategies include increasing temperature and reducing pressures. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically overcomes conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency advantages. The utilization of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a superior choice for meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher propene selectivity, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from various sources. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts and improving process efficiency through lower temperatures and pressures, potentially reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes abundant and economical propane from natural gas production, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. PtSn-based catalysts efficiently catalyze propane dehydrogenation, though deactivation and stability issues are challenges. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, are being refined to address the high cost and environmental concerns of conventional propylene production methods. The investigation of indium-based and other catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlights efforts to improve PDH's stability and selectivity. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas, making it a promising solution to overcome limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The increasing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are pivotal. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's potential. Developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH to address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane—a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining—as a feedstock. This offers an advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant shale gas feedstock, specifically propane, into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH offers enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly converts propane with high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted process minimizes by-products, resulting in a cleaner production method that meets increasing propylene demand while reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution for efficient propylene production. PDH directly produces propylene without hybrid products, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, ensuring abundant and cost-effective feedstock. This proprietary method specifically tackles the limitations of conventional production in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has led to a drop in propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, currently favorable. PDH's on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, enhancing product selectivity, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances non-noble metal Co-based catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. This highlights PDH as a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness, enabled by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, makes it an efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the single product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, addresses the limitations of traditional methods. PDH's competitive edge in production costs makes it a leading choice in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties improve efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a viable solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues. This method improves process efficiency and product selectivity by directly converting propane to propene, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, petroleum-independent route, crucial as resources deplete. PDH, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical option. However, the process's endothermic nature and high-temperature requirements lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, presenting a significant challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote [1]). Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions (Quote [2]). However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have issues: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation (Quotes [3]-[5]). Re-dispersing Pt with Cl2 or Cl compounds is also environmentally harmful (Quote [6]). Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, showing high activity in dehydrogenation processes (Quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and selectivity in meeting the high demand for propylene, making it a promising solution. Conventional methods, previously balanced by naphtha crackers, are challenged by the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH emerges as a viable option, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to address challenges in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages abundant and cost-effective shale gas resources, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-products. PDH's modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods, addressing limitations in feedstock and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods by ensuring feedstock availability, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity, as traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane as a feedstock, reducing dependence on less stable naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. This results in higher propylene yields and lower operating costs, making PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option. Its ability to operate at a smaller scale also enhances flexibility and adaptability to market conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to address the growing global demand, particularly through the development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts. This is crucial given the endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, which requires high temperatures for high yields, making PDH a promising method that enhances process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically achieved with Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional propylene production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a preferred method for production, addressing the supply-demand gap. PDH utilizes abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process offers a viable alternative to conventional methods, making it attractive in today's industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, offering an alternative to non-petroleum based propylene. The exploration of zinc as a catalyst in PDH is driven by the scarcity and toxicity of current noble metal catalysts. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating PDH's efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the need for chlorine in catalyst regeneration. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, underlining its efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. This direct transformation process is efficient, increasing propylene output. PDH's non-oxidative route offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often struggle to meet propene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH can use propane from shale gas, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. It potentially offers higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand by utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike conventional methods that rely on limited naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, making it an environmentally friendly and sustainable alternative. This process specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a solution to the limitations of traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking by requiring less energy and producing fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources to enhance feedstock availability. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, particularly through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which demonstrate superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, cost-effectiveness, and reduced toxicity, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in cost and environmental impact. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance propane utilization, making PDH a key pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology, leveraging abundant shale gas reserves for feedstock. PDH offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, directly producing propylene from propane without complex cracking processes. This method potentially reduces production costs and improves selectivity compared to traditional naphtha and heavy oil methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH is a key focus, further enhancing its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for meeting the heavy demand for propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. PDH ensures efficient feedstock use, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting challenges in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's compatibility with shale gas feedstock and its potential for enhanced product selectivity make it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane. The development of novel catalysts aims to overcome disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, further highlighting PDH's promise.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, making it a promising alternative. Propylene, a key chemical precursor, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demands. PDH offers a solution with its efficient use of propane as a feedstock, enhancing product selectivity and addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution to the limitations of conventional production methods. PDH processes, notably Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a promising alternative, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability, addressing the urgent need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It addresses challenges by utilizing existing facilities, reducing investment costs, and offering a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, driven by shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional methods' challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively addresses these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a key industrial raw material. It leverages the abundant propane from shale gas, offering lower cost and nontoxicity compared to conventional Pt and Cr-based catalysts. By incorporating Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, PDH achieves enhanced catalytic activity and stability. This technology specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing shale gas-derived propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions, thus improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cheap, and PDH factories' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and price difference between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its advantages include high propylene yield and low by-product formation, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable results close to the ideal state, despite thermodynamic limitations. Increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustment, pressure control, and H2 management reduces costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. The technology addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, utilizing alkanes as feedstocks. Efficient catalysts are crucial for achieving high selectivity toward olefins, particularly in PDH reactions, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an environmentally friendly solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for propylene production. PDH utilizes widely available propane as feedstock, offering high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. This process operates at milder conditions than conventional steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes provide high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds while minimizing CC cleavage. Direct conversion of propane to propylene in PDH minimizes unwanted byproduct formation, improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR processes, utilizing Cr/Al2O3, PtSn/Al2O3, and PtSn/ZnO-Al2O3 catalysts respectively, operate under varying pressures, with Catofin at atmospheric pressure, Oleflex at 13 bar, and STAR at 56 bar. The recent surge in natural gas production, including shale gas, provides abundant propane, a key feedstock for PDH. This technology simplifies reactant and product distribution, reduces investment, and integrates easily with existing technology, unlike complex and costly conventional processes. PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding deep oxidation issues and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges such as high Pt costs and Cr's environmental impact, prompting research into indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane, addressing conventional production method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing investigations into diverse catalysts, like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, reflect efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, namely Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are pivotal. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology is more sustainable and cost-effective, making it a viable alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. PDH's higher product selectivity and process efficiency make it a more energy-efficient option, targeting the conversion of propane to propylene with higher yields and potentially lower operating costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability issues. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, converting propane directly into propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective process is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas, meeting the increasing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, making feedstock more abundant and cost-effective. PDH's proprietary process exclusively produces propylene, enhancing product selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are critical for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's attractiveness. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields high-purity propylene, optimizing olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH indicate improved process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts show high activity, they face challenges like high cost and environmental issues, underscoring the need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, directly addressing product selectivity and environmental impact challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing key challenges. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas extraction, enhancing feedstock availability. PDH curbs overoxidation, boosting process efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, ensuring product purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With the rise in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, propane becomes more abundant and cheaper, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. It leverages abundant raw materials from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and efficiency make it a competitive choice, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but faces issues due to its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts are crucial for improving efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It bypasses intermediate steps, improving efficiency and selectivity, and utilizes abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability. This process avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and depletion of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH converts propane to propylene efficiently. However, the high-temperature requirement for catalytic activity facilitates side reactions, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, which show high activity in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an efficient method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced the demand for ethylene and propylene, but the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas disrupted this balance, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH emerges as a solution, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising technology to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high conversion rate of propane to propylene, and high selectivity minimizing by-products. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative with high efficiency and low cost compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in meeting growing global demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources. This method specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming traditional production methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) which struggle to meet demand due to petroleum depletion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on costly and less available naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more sustainable and cost-effective option compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the escalating global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a key solution, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods. The endothermic nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures for high yields, underscoring the critical role of developing catalysts with enhanced activity, stability, and selectivity for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but ODH-O2 can lead to overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and increase CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. PDH, with its green feedstock and efficiency, holds potential to revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency. It utilizes widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the global demand. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and 97% selectivity at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes. The in-situ reduction of zinc species to active sites further supports its efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. A designed catalyst, with ZnO NPs encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating its efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based propene production, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity by three times, matching selectivity, under industrial conditions, compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock for light alkanes like propane. This direct transformation is efficient and increases propylene output. PDH offers advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often result in a demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in current use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages over conventional propylene production methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH ensures a more abundant and stable feedstock supply compared to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's potential for higher yields and selectivity, especially in utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes, indicates its superiority in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, effectively addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH offers an alternative route that enhances economic benefits and efficiency gains, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, addresses propylene demand by improving feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH is more sustainable, consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 and NOx. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, offering higher selectivity. As a key raw material for various products, propylene's production through PDH is crucial for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability for propylene production. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, highlighting process efficiency and product selectivity advantages. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing challenges faced by traditional propylene production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its efficiency, selectivity, and ability to utilize abundant propane feedstock. Compared to alternatives like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and lower environmental impact. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted propane conversion, making PDH a promising pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Key advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs due to shale gas use, and a more efficient process. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. Notably, it tackles the issue of Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, which are common limitations in traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to enhance process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas supply highlights its advantages in feedstock availability and product selectivity, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. The development of these catalysts is crucial due to the disadvantages of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones. PDH is particularly advantageous for propene production where demand cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands. Propylene, a critical chemical precursor for various products, benefits from PDH's enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Conventional methods, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting PDH's expansion. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show potential, with Co's earth abundance supporting long-term PDH viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane and butane, enhancing propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It's particularly advantageous as existing facilities can be readily adapted, making it a viable solution to meet rising global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability (Quote 2). It addresses conventional method limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's challenges are mitigated by the active site isolation strategy (Quote 5). This approach enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing conventional production challenges. The introduction of Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances catalytic activity and stability, crucial for efficient propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH's advantage is bolstered by the availability of cheap propane-rich shale gas, a byproduct of fracking technology. This makes PDH factories highly adjustable and profitable, given the growing propylene market and the price difference between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature is optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely approaching ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures can improve conversion. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. Catalysts with practical engineering relevance are essential. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, and improving process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods in meeting the growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency advantages. The utilization of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to other methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging widely available propane from sources like shale gas. PDH offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, operating at milder conditions than conventional steam cracking. This efficiency and selectivity are enhanced by Pt-based catalysts, which activate paraffinic CH bonds while minimizing CC cleavage, leading to superior propylene selectivity. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves process efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing propane as a feedstock, which is abundant due to the exploitation of shale gas. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, are being refined to address the high demand for propylene, with a focus on indium-based catalysts for improved stability and selectivity. The low cost of propane from shale gas and the world's growing need for propylene have spurred interest in PDH. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, to enhance PDH efficiency, indicating its promise in overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, address conventional method challenges. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering higher process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. This technology's ability to meet increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits makes it a key solution in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand for propylene. It produces only propylene, enhancing product selectivity, and benefits from abundant and cheaper propane feedstock due to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. The technology's efficiency and selectivity make it superior to conventional methods. Propylene demand is forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually by 2035, underscoring the importance of PDH in meeting this demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing technologies have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The high availability of cheap natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, resulting in a drop in propylene supply and a rise in its price. This scenario has created opportunities for PDH, which is profitable due to the price difference between propane and propylene. PDH is an on-purpose technique, yielding exclusive propylene rather than a mixture of products, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of the CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes demonstrate improved efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental concerns, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental impact challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalyst contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process using propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This addresses the limitations of traditional methods, which relied on naphtha and coal cracking, by utilizing abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources like shale gas. PDH's wide raw material base and lower production costs make it a competitive choice, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its high propylene yields, PDH's endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to issues like coking and particle sintering, which affect selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its economic competitiveness, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the need for intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity from coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering an economical and direct route from propane, independent of dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH addresses conventional method limitations by providing an alternative feedstock. However, the process's high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions, such as cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency over oil-based cracking. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, addressing sustainability. New PDH plants indicate growing contribution to propylene production. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks, high costs, and deactivation issues. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading solution for propylene production amidst growing global demand. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced the industrial need for ethylene and propylene, but the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH emerges as a viable option, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges, ensuring a steady supply of propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted in the literature, are highly active and selective for propylene, with good regeneration ability, making PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods with high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on dwindling oil reserves, making it a viable and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, unlike multi-step processes. This results in lower energy consumption and higher yields, making PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its advantage lies in the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for propane dehydrogenation. The endothermic nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures for high yields, highlighting PDH's role in enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out in propylene production for its high spacetime yield, typically achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise for selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally favorable but yields are lower than DDH and ODH-O2. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. Developing lower energy PDH routes using green propane could revolutionize propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a superior production method, addressing conventional limitations. PDH utilizes abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, offering high propylene selectivity and valuable H2 by-product. Its eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts led to the exploration of zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, as a promising alternative. Zn-4@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion. This addresses challenges in conventional propylene production by utilizing environment-friendly, cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals. The catalyst design, involving encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, ensures high performance and stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, maintaining similar selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and a demand-supply gap. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, improves efficiency, and boosts product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, derived from natural gas, making it less dependent on oil-based feedstocks. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods, making PDH a sustainable and attractive alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, surpassing traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant shale gas resources, offers improved feedstock availability over traditional oil-based methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, with added benefits of competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased the availability of low-valued propane from shale gas, further enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. While Pt-based catalysts used in traditional processes have short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, PDH emerges as a more promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for efficient propane conversion, has gained attention for propylene production. It leverages platinum-based catalysts, though these are prone to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration that can lead to catalyst sintering. Stable, anti-sintering catalysts are sought after to withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration. PDH's potential to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production highlights its advantage in feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, especially where demand cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process. The development of these novel catalysts aims to overcome disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, conventional production methods like naphtha steam cracking are strained, failing to meet needs due to fossil energy consumption. PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, offers a solution with higher efficiency and selectivity, producing less by-products, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and the abundance of propane from shale-gas, PDH technology is gaining prominence. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts, noted for their promise in PDH, align well with the element's earth abundance, suggesting long-term utility in addressing the growing need for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes like steam cracking. PDH offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact, making it advantageous over conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane from petrochemical processes, easy retrofitting of existing facilities, and higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers a sustainable and economically viable solution for propylene production. It boasts high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and maximizing propylene yields, making it superior to traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH's streamlined process and reduced energy consumption contribute to its cost-effectiveness and environmental sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, thanks to shale gas and abundant natural gas. This addresses conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive, requiring high temperatures that affect selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by moderate Ni, improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for industrial raw material production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH factories are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, which addresses feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to propylene and H2, both high-value products. Its endothermic nature limits conversion, but optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. Increasing reaction temperature, reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, enhances propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are critical for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH, using widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits over steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize alkanes from shale gas as feedstocks specifically addresses these issues, making it a promising method for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene compared to conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from diverse sources, enhancing feedstock availability. PDH's direct and efficient process results in higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and economically viable.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its efficient production using widely available propane as feedstock. PDH operates under milder conditions than conventional methods, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions, making it a superior choice for meeting propylene demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the shale gas boom, for direct dehydrogenation to propylene. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. However, challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, which are being addressed through research to improve resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation. PDH's operation without oxidants avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, including Catofin and Oleflex, are being investigated for their potential to address the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Indium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high stability and selectivity, while the low cost of propane from shale gas has renewed interest in PDH. Various catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, are being explored to improve PDH technology, indicating ongoing efforts to enhance its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, like Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges with high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, limiting their development. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, addressing conventional production limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods by utilizing propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor design enhances efficiency and sustainability, making it a cost-effective option for meeting global propylene demand, especially in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, outperforming traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking in energy efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, offering better feedstock availability. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, making it a cleaner, targeted production process that meets increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly producing propylene without byproducts, enhancing product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts feedstock availability, making propane abundant and cost-effective. Propylene demand is projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the importance of efficient production methods like PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has led to a 75% drop in gas costs since 2005, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals and transportation fuels. This has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price, thus favoring PDH's profitability. PDH's on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, like propylene, with polymer-quality purity, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly with the CoSiBeta catalyst, which improves process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. PDH aims to address these challenges by developing green, cost-effective catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances non-noble metal Co-based catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. This highlights its advantages in product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With the abundance of cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), simplifying the process and enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods that struggle to meet market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures high propylene yields but faces issues due to its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial petrochemical building block. As petroleum resources dwindle, PDH offers an alternative, commercially available route that is both economical and process-efficient. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology to enhance catalyst efficiency under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking technologies. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, contributing to a growing share of propene production. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt have health risks and cost issues. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, have been developed to address these challenges, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Traditionally, naphtha crackers balanced the industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, but ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas has disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key contender in meeting the large-scale demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It's considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking. The literature highlights the need for novel catalysts, with vanadium-based options showing promise for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane resources and the price gap between propane and propylene, ensuring sufficient propylene supply without dependence on depleting petroleum. This method specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an effective solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. This technology can be implemented in smaller, modular plants, offering flexibility and lower operating costs, making PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional production methods. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation necessitates high temperatures for high yields, making the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity essential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses conventional methods' challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH-O2) using boron catalysts shows promise without coke issues. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but less efficient. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on lower energy routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production, utilizing abundant shale gas as a cheap feedstock. It achieves high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it a preferred alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising route for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is investigated as an alternative catalyst due to the scarcity and toxicity of current PDH catalyst components. The Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges by achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability in environment-friendly, cost-efficient catalysts. A designed catalyst, encapsulating NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, exhibits 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's capability to meet global demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The ZnO-based catalyst in PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, showcasing its efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is more efficient and selective than conventional methods, which often result in energy-intensive processes and a demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH uses abundant propane, sourced from natural gas, making it less dependent on oil-based feedstocks. PDH is more energy-efficient, producing less CO2 and NOx emissions, and has higher product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a sustainable and attractive alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking methods. PDH, using a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability. This process minimizes coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product quality with lower costs and toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to conventional methods. The process is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, producing high-value propylene. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane, underscoring PDH's role in meeting demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene from propane, potentially reducing costs and simplifying the process. The development of a selective catalyst for PDH could further enhance efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for industrial-scale propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting challenges in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology has gained prominence for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources. Its high propane conversion at high temperatures is a key advantage. However, challenges remain, including the need for stable, anti-sintering catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration. The increased supply of propane from shale gas exploration has renewed interest in PDH, highlighting its potential in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propylene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses challenges in conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane. Novel catalysts are being developed to overcome drawbacks of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum and toxicity of chromium, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, thanks to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. Propylene, a key chemical for various products, faces growing demand that conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet due to fossil energy consumption. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a superior alternative, addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology. Conventional methods using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting their scalability. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a viable solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term sustainability for the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its high propylene selectivity, converting widely available propane directly into propylene. This process is more efficient and less energy-intensive than conventional methods, offering better resource utilization and reduced environmental impact. PDH's advantages specifically address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, which can be sourced from various petrochemical processes. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This method minimizes byproducts, streamlining production and making it more cost-effective and sustainable compared to traditional oil-based methods. PDH's energy efficiency and higher propylene yields, along with its reduced dependency on complex separation processes, make it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The shift from naphtha to light alkanes, driven by shale gas and natural gas, enhances PDH's appeal. Despite its energy intensity and high reaction temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, improving alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propylene production, crucial for industrial products. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance catalytic activity and stability. PDH specifically addresses challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, enhancing its efficiency. PDH factories are adaptable, running various reactions, which, combined with the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock to address availability issues. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by its potential to reduce costs through increased propane conversion. Strategies like temperature adjustment and pressure control enhance efficiency. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by offering high propylene yield and selectivity, utilizing widely available propane feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, being thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, offer process efficiency advantages. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging widely available propane from sources like shale gas. PDH offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking, the conventional method. This results in lower energy consumption and potentially reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Utilizing Pt-based catalysts, PDH ensures superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improving product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology compared to conventional methods. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at atmospheric pressure for better efficiency. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high costs and environmental concerns, PDH technologies are being optimized through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, which show promise for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, aiming to enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have spurred interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative to limited feedstocks and improving process efficiency and product selectivity. However, the high cost of platinum and toxicity of chromium in PDH catalysts restrict its development, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, bypassing the limitations of steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process in a single reactor, reducing costs. This technology is more sustainable and cost-effective, making it a viable alternative, especially in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's design targets propane conversion, leading to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a suitable option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising method for production, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH offers enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene with high conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products for a cleaner, more targeted process. This makes PDH a sustainable, cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions, addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It excels by exclusively producing propylene, enhancing selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock is now accessible. Propylene's demand, forecasted to rise 2-3% annually until 2035, underscores PDH's critical role in meeting market needs efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price differential between propane and propylene, currently favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies offer the advantage of producing a specific olefin, propylene, rather than a mixed product, and can achieve polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity for PDH, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts show high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides a cheap and plentiful propane source, addressing feedstock availability. PDH curbs overoxidation, enhancing process efficiency compared to oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high selectivity for propylene distinguishes it from hybrid products in MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production efficiency and selectivity. These catalysts achieve over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrate good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the challenges of conventional methods. The abundance of propane, a byproduct of shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, makes PDH cost-effective and efficient, meeting the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of a single feedstock, propane, and single product, propylene, enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and competitive edge make it a promising solution to meet growing global demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but requires high temperatures, causing coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, crucial for adsorbing propyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and cheaper propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, improving feedstock availability. This method enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and providing a shorter production route. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and low propylene selectivity. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing contribution to propylene production, marked by new plant constructions, highlights its potential. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent developments in eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges posed by conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability. Previously, the demand for ethylene and propylene was balanced by naphtha crackers, but the rise of ethane cracking from natural gas and shale gas disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH emerges as an efficient solution, capable of meeting the growing global demand for propylene while overcoming limitations in feedstock and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH utilizes abundant propane, capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it an effective solution for propylene supply. This method ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on dwindling oil reserves, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on less stable naphtha. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure. This technology results in lower operating costs, higher propylene yields, and is more environmentally viable than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the need for developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but PDH outperforms in selectivity and activity. Future PDH catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. Its key advantages include utilizing cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene, and producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising route for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity at 853 K, demonstrating high propylene selectivity and regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's potential in industrial processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after nearly 6 hours, addressing limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of ZnO-based catalysts further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient process, offering advantages in product selectivity and process efficiency over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often face demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production, offering potential benefits over conventional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. By utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH addresses feedstock availability with a more abundant and stable supply. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. It meets the increasing demand for propylene with higher yields and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH's benefits include improved feedstock flexibility, higher process efficiency, and better product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher energy efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity for propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. The process is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, making it a sustainable choice. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts offers an attractive solution to meet the growing global demand for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, using a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from shale gas, offers advantages in feedstock availability, reducing reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These advantages contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the soaring global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. PDH addresses the challenges of conventional techniques by offering better feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in utilizing abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. PDH offers key advantages over traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, including better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and direct propylene production without complex cracking processes. The focus on developing a superior catalyst for PDH further enhances its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity present challenges that must be overcome for PDH to fully realize its potential as a superior production method.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are sought after to enhance process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration highlights its advantage in feedstock availability for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. The development of these catalysts addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and the shale-gas-derived propane reserves spotlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Conventional PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising alternative, offering long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, addressing the need for new catalysts and enhancing PDH's potential to meet propylene demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes like steam cracking. PDH offers greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, enhancing propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities without major investment makes it a cost-effective solution, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, addresses propylene production challenges by achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing byproducts, and offering energy efficiency. This results in a more sustainable and economically viable process compared to traditional methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially as feedstock shifts from naphtha to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive, requiring high temperatures that can lead to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. Ni-modified zinc-based catalysts in PDH enhance catalytic activity and stability, crucial for efficient propene production. This technology specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process specifically targets propylene, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH factories' adaptability and the growing propylene market, coupled with the price differential between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1 demonstrates high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Its endothermic nature, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can be optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions to closely match ideal outcomes. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by enhancing single-pass propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically overcomes conventional method limitations by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, with minimal by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods in meeting the growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propane, abundant and sourced from various feedstocks, ensures feedstock availability. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds while minimizing CC cleavage. Direct conversion of propane to propylene in PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional processes. It utilizes propane, an abundant feedstock from natural gas and shale gas production, for direct dehydrogenation. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. However, challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, particularly those using indium-based catalysts, are being investigated for their potential high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research on various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates efforts to improve PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves have spotlighted catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising method for propylene production. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by utilizing shale-gas feedstock and offering process efficiency. Commercial PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, are pivotal. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This offers more abundant and stable supply compared to conventional methods using naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH processes are designed for higher efficiency and selectivity, specifically targeting propane conversion to propylene, which leads to higher yields and potentially lower costs. The single-reactor setup simplifies the process, reducing capital and operating expenses. PDH's energy efficiency and product selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly converts propane with high conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-products and maximizing economic benefits. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas resources, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand for propylene and the limitations of conventional methods. It produces propylene exclusively, enhancing product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective. Propylene demand is projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, underscoring the importance of PDH's efficiency and selectivity in meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating a favorable market for PDH. This technology, being on-purpose, exclusively yields propylene, ensuring polymer-quality purity, and its profitability is bolstered by the current price differential between propane and propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. The CoSiBeta catalyst used in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face challenges such as high cost, environmental issues, and rapid deactivation. PDH's pursuit of a green, low-cost catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores its aim to tackle product selectivity and environmental impact challenges not adequately addressed by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, addressing key challenges in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity that overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which suffer from high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and competitive edge make it a superior choice over conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, which, while boosting propylene yields, also causes issues like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and depletion of petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH directly converts propane to propylene. However, its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature requires high temperatures, promoting side reactions that decrease propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking technologies. Its growing contribution to overall propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and cost and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts. Recent developments include eco-friendly and cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading method for propylene production. It specifically tackles the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, which have become critical due to the disruption of the balance in ethylene and propylene production from naphtha crackers by ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas. PDH's ability to meet the large demand for propylene highlights its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering a high conversion rate of propane to propylene and selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle to meet growing demand due to depleting petroleum resources. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC methods, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on diminishing oil reserves, making it an effective solution for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on less stable naphtha. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. PDH's modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This technology is more economically and environmentally viable, with lower operating costs and higher yields, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in addressing the growing global demand. Its key benefit lies in the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for propane dehydrogenation. The endothermic nature of the reaction necessitates high temperatures for high yields, making PDH a promising method that overcomes limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and offering environmental benefits. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, reduces coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements to ensure sustainability and transform propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging cheap and abundant propane from shale gas to achieve high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient method directly addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, offering a sustainable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts like Zn@S-1, offers a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Zn-4@S-1 exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with regeneration capability, making it a viable option. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity contrast with the scarcity and toxicity of platinum and chromium in traditional PDH catalysts, highlighting PDH's potential to meet global propylene demand more efficiently and sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Environment-friendly and cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods. PDH offers better process efficiency and product selectivity, narrowing the gap between propene demand and supply. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages over conventional propylene production methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH ensures a more abundant and stable feedstock supply compared to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity, selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from diverse sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. This technology potentially yields higher propylene outputs and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for increased yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's independence from specific feedstocks and higher efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved product selectivity. It uses abundant propane, unlike conventional methods that rely on limited naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it a sustainable choice. Its higher selectivity for propylene, compared to traditional methods, makes it ideal for meeting the growing global demand for this key chemical raw material. By utilizing propane, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, especially as it can be sourced from natural gas, reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks. The process's efficiency and lower emissions contribute to its environmental benefits, while its direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts offers a more targeted production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock flexibility. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, particularly through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which outperform Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining alternatives like MTP and WGSR. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it a preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted propane conversion through abundant shale gas extraction, enhancing its utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH offers direct propylene production, potentially lower costs due to abundant shale gas, and a more efficient process, enhancing product selectivity. Developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further boost its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges in the field.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in utilizing abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though highly active, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to irreversible sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas resources addresses feedstock availability challenges, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, offering potential advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional propylene production methods. This makes PDH an attractive alternative, particularly for meeting the growing demand for propylene where conventional methods face limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining attention for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which can no longer meet growing demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the rise of propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, particularly the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt, by offering an alternative with cobalt-based catalysts, which are more abundant and sustainable for long-term use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It addresses challenges by utilizing feedstocks produced by various petrochemical processes and allowing easy retrofitting of existing facilities, making it a promising method amid growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a feedstock, offers key advantages in propylene production. It ensures stable and reliable propylene supply, is more energy-efficient, and has higher selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. This makes PDH a sustainable and economically viable option, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional methods' challenges regarding feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's energy intensity, necessitating high temperatures, poses challenges for selectivity and catalyst stability. However, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, as demonstrated in practice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging widely available propane from shale gas, is recognized for its effectiveness in propene production, crucial for various industrial products. Zinc-based catalysts, though cost-effective and non-toxic, have limitations in activity and stability. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boosts both activity and stability. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by ensuring feedstock availability, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process specifically targets propylene, avoiding the production of hybrid hydrocarbons. The technology benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability, especially considering the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, showcasing high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process converting propane to high-value propylene and H2, has emerged as a promising solution to meet global propylene demand. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can achieve near-ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by strategies to increase propane conversion, such as adjusting temperature and pressure. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. It directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproduct formation, and operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. This makes PDH a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, efforts are made to improve catalyst stability. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it a more selective process for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts and operation conditions to optimize performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies offer potential advantages over conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Ongoing research into catalysts, including indium-based materials and others like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based substances, and nanocarbon catalysts, aims to improve PDH's stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The increasing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, specifically the Oleflex and Catofin processes, addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing feedstock availability. However, the high cost of Pt in Oleflex and toxicity of Cr in Catofin limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This offers an advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting low-value feedstock into high-value propylene. This makes PDH sustainable and cost-effective, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH exhibits higher process efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, resulting in a cleaner, more targeted production process. This technology effectively meets growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, not hybrid products, boosts selectivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price, and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current price differential between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products. Industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins, making PDH a favorable choice in the current market conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. However, the high cost and environmental issues of current PDH catalysts highlight the urgent need for a green, low-priced alternative with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity compared to hybrid products from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalyst contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, enhancing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With the abundance of raw material propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH becomes a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    