Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock to yield propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective supply of raw materials. PDH's lower costs make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses conventional propylene production challenges by offering high activity and yields. However, as an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, it faces issues of coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, directly converting abundant and low-cost propane into propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or decreased catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct and economical method for propylene production, addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative amid dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH directly converts propane to propylene. However, its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, as propylene is a vital petrochemical building block for various products.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering environmental advantages over oil-based methods by utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas. Its significance grows with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have issues, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, enhanced with metal oxides and Ru/Rh NP, have been developed to address these challenges, demonstrating high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering superior efficiency and selectivity in production. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it well-suited for large-scale production. The rise of ethane cracking disrupted the balance in industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, necessitating on-purpose methods like PDH, which excels in process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It excels with a high propane-to-propylene conversion rate, reducing by-product formation. Modular implementation ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity and selectivity for propylene, enhance PDH's efficiency, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price differential between propane and propylene. This method effectively counters the limitations of traditional production techniques, like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures a steady propylene supply without depending on dwindling oil reserves, making it a vital advancement for the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, reducing reliance on costly naphtha. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transport costs. Notably, PDH boasts high yields and lower operating costs, making it a superior choice for propylene production economically and environmentally.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, advantageous for meeting growing propylene demand, overcomes conventional method limitations by employing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction. This process, requiring high temperatures for high yields, enhances efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane to avoid coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, prioritizing low temperature CO2 activation and considering more abundant catalytic elements.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high propylene selectivity and produces valuable hydrogen, addressing the global demand for propylene and outperforming conventional methods in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. The exploration of zinc as an alternative, non-toxic, and earth-abundant metal for catalysts is promising. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's potential to meet the growing global demand for propylene with enhanced efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability. It uses cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The encapsulation of nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer controls ZnO nanoparticle size, preventing loss at high temperatures. This results in high PDH performance, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, directly addressing the question's focus on PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, highlighting its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient and addresses the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it an emerging and advantageous technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, especially when utilizing shale gas resources. This method selectively activates CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields, making it a promising solution compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand, as it offers an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock for better availability, especially from natural gas. It excels in energy efficiency and environmental friendliness, with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Unlike traditional processes from naphtha and crude oil, PDH ensures higher selectivity for propylene, meeting the growing global demand more sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking in energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with exceptional selectivity and stability, effectively mitigating common issues of coke formation and sintering faced by conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces dependence on oil-based feedstocks and offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH processes achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, leading to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over conventional techniques. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered PDH's position by facilitating the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene through abundant shale gas extraction.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, offers a promising solution for propylene production. Its advantages include improved feedstock availability, a more efficient process, and enhanced product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH enables direct propylene production, potentially reducing costs, and the development of an active, selective, and durable catalyst is crucial for maximizing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to address the growing global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional methods. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, enabling efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it an environmentally friendly and superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, a common component in PDH, struggle with short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting areas for improvement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources to address feedstock availability challenges. Its potential for enhanced efficiency through stable, anti-sintering catalysts highlights ongoing research. PDH's ability to utilize increased propane supply from shale gas makes it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propene production, offering a more direct and efficient route than steam cracking, especially as demand exceeds capacity. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH show good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges by enabling efficient propene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in meeting global propylene demand due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, offering higher efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and increased propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with toxic Cr catalysts and costly Pt, by utilizing earth-abundant cobalt-based catalysts, ensuring long-term utility and making PDH a viable option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering high selectivity in converting propane directly into propylene. This process is more efficient and resource-friendly than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and have lower yields. PDH's advantages include better environmental impact and resource utilization, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane and butane, enhances process efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. By leveraging existing facilities, it reduces investment needs and overcomes limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with higher yields and fewer byproducts. This sustainable and economically viable method overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it superior to traditional steam cracking for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock, thanks to shale gas and natural gas availability (Quote 2). It overcomes conventional method challenges by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy requirements and temperatures that can cause cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy (Quote 5) effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, provide cost-effective and nontoxic alternatives, improving catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high selectivity, efficiency, and adaptability, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the affordability of propane-rich shale gas, a direct result of fracking technology. The growing demand for propylene and the favorable price differential between propylene and propane further solidify PDH's position as a leading and economically viable method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas as feedstock, addresses availability issues. Its ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 exhibit high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently transforms propane into high-value propylene and H2. Despite thermodynamic constraints, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal conversion. PDH's energy-intensive nature is offset by enhancing single-pass propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments. This process specifically tackles conventional method challenges by leveraging abundant propane feedstock, achieving high propylene yield with minimal by-products, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to conventional SC and FCC methods. It leverages abundant shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. PDH's thermodynamic properties and efficiency make it superior in addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields, thus reducing costs and environmental impact, making it a promising solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts offer high selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low activity to CC cleavage, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency. This results in lower energy consumption and reduced greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It leverages propane, an abundant feedstock from natural gas and shale gas, ensuring a steady supply. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with current technology. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts but face challenges with deactivation and stability. Despite these, PDH remains a more efficient and selective process for propylene production, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are rising in prominence for propylene production, driven by global demand and low-cost propane from shale gas. Ongoing research explores catalysts, including indium-based ones, to improve PDH's stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes, emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane reserves in shale gas. It overcomes conventional production challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt in Oleflex and Cr toxicity in Catofin catalysts pose limitations, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene without steam cracking. It boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and simplified process in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's targeted conversion leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts abundant propane from shale gas into propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner process with higher efficiency and selectivity, making it advantageous in regions with shale gas resources, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in addressing the escalating global demand for propylene. It boasts enhanced product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene, and benefits from abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2-3% annually by 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial in meeting this demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights the advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH, bolstered by the current price gap between propane and propylene, offers high-purity olefins, making it a favorable choice in the current market, as it specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, enhancing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity in PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. Supported CrOx and Pt catalysts, despite high activity, face high cost and environmental issues. The urgent need for a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene highlights PDH's focus on environmental challenges and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cheap propane feedstock, efficiently inhibiting overoxidation, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. (1) Shale gas extraction ensures a plentiful supply of propane for PDH. (2) PDH avoids the overoxidation issues characteristic of ODH. (3) PDH's superior selectivity for propylene sets it apart from hybrid MTO and FTO products, as it is a proprietary technology specifically designed for high propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high propylene selectivity and efficiency, directly addressing the high energy consumption and low selectivity issues of conventional methods. The technology leverages the abundance and lower cost of propane, a byproduct of advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, ensuring cost-effective raw material supply, and offers lower production costs and a simplified process compared to traditional methods, making it a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Despite requiring high temperatures, which can impact efficiency and selectivity, nanostructured catalysts improve these aspects, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and cheaper propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency. It directly converts propane to propylene, bypassing the need for dwindling petroleum resources. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Addressing these challenges is critical for the industrial success of PDH in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its environmental edge, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock over oil-based cracking. Its significance grows with new plant constructions. Yet, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and suffer from deactivation. Recent innovations feature eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, needing metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high propane dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's efficiency and selectivity, making it a leading solution. Conventional naphtha crackers, once balancing ethylene and propylene production, are now overshadowed by ethylene from natural gas, necessitating dedicated propylene methods. PDH, recognized for its efficiency, tackles feedstock availability and process challenges, becoming a cornerstone in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production using abundant shale gas, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity that reduce by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes abundant propane and capitalizes on the significant price difference between propane and propylene, effectively addressing the shortfall in propylene supply caused by the depletion of petroleum resources. Unlike traditional methods, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production, crucial for the synthesis of high-valued chemical products.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in a single-step conversion with minimal byproducts. This contrasts with conventional multi-step methods, offering lower energy consumption and higher yields. PDH's modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by overcoming conventional method limitations, specifically in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The growing demand for propene drives the need for high-performance catalysts in PDH, which operates efficiently at high temperatures, ensuring high yields and adaptability to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active catalysts, typically Pt or Cr based. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by utilizing renewable green propane, which is gaining traction as a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids the coke formation issues seen in non-oxidative processes, while oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) offer additional benefits but face limitations in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhancing CO2 activation in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize more abundant catalytic elements and lower energy routes to propene, transforming the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to the propylene supply-demand gap, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making them a viable option for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, effectively addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene production. By encapsulating nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing its potential to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often lead to supply-demand gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging industry standard.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and stable propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, notably from shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs while efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to feedstock-dependent and less efficient steam cracking and FCC. PDH specifically addresses challenges by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, overcomes conventional propylene production's limitations by being more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and having higher propylene selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH ensures better feedstock availability. The process is sustainable, consuming less energy and producing fewer emissions. PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, offering superior product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. By utilizing a Pt catalyst promoted with Sn, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, effectively reducing issues of coke formation and sintering that plague conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances feedstock availability. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to traditional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity. These advancements contribute to competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a vital industrial component, has spotlighted propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a superior production method. PDH offers key advantages over conventional techniques in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production, as highlighted in Quote 4. Advances in hydraulic fracturing, mentioned in Quote 5, have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, reinforcing PDH's pivotal role in meeting the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It offers lower production costs and a more direct, efficient, and selective process compared to traditional methods. The development of a high-performance catalyst further enhances PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable alternative to address challenges in feedstock availability and process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Its ability to efficiently activate CH bonds ensures longer reactive longevity, making it environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the global demand for propylene effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for escalating global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly employed, exhibit short-term stability and subpar propylene selectivity, impacting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses global propylene demand through a high-temperature process. Challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition are acknowledged, highlighting the need for stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas for propylene production underscores its superiority over conventional methods, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a more direct and efficient route for propylene production from propane, with high selectivity and onstream stability. This addresses challenges in conventional methods, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and reduced by-product generation, offering superior efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional naphtha steam cracking methods. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene, a key chemical component, by providing a more sustainable and effective production process.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundance of propane from shale gas. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a sustainable alternative, supported by cobalt's earth abundance, ensuring long-term viability for the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive processes, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to traditional methods, PDH offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane from various petrochemical processes, offers easy retrofitting into existing facilities. It addresses conventional production challenges by enhancing propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with high yields and minimal byproducts. It ensures stable production, reduces oil-based feedstock dependency, and enhances overall efficiency, making it a sustainable and economically viable solution to meet growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift from naphtha to light alkanes, driven by shale gas and natural gas abundance (Quote 2). This addresses conventional method challenges, notably feedstock availability. Despite PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures, which are necessary but lead to selectivity and stability issues (Quotes 1, 3, and 4), active site isolation effectively tackles these challenges, enhancing efficiency and selectivity (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. This addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by offering higher efficiency and selectivity, specifically targeting propylene production. Unlike traditional methods that heavily depend on fossil fuels and have lower propylene yields, PDH utilizes propane, which has become cheap due to fracking technology. This makes PDH highly profitable, given the growing demand for propylene and the favorable price difference between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional propylene production methods. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH demonstrates high activity, stability, and selectivity for propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2 in an atom-economic reaction. Though limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion, addressing conventional method challenges. PDH, despite being energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion through strategies like temperature increase and pressure adjustments, as highlighted in Quotes 6-8. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development, as noted in Quote 9. PDH utilizes abundant propane feedstock for efficient and selective propylene production, directly addressing the question's context.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. It effectively addresses growing global demands by utilizing abundant shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties ensure process efficiency, unlike conventional SC and FCC. Efficient catalysts are crucial, activating the CH bond while suppressing CC cleavage to achieve high olefin selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its higher selectivity to propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane, offers high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking. Pt-based catalysts ensure high propylene selectivity and low CC cleavage activity. Direct propane conversion to propylene improves efficiency and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas for a steady feedstock. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specialized catalysts for efficiency, though catalyst deactivation and stability are ongoing challenges. PDH's atmospheric pressure operation enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies address conventional method challenges by optimizing indium-based catalysts for high stability and selectivity, while ongoing research explores various catalysts to further improve PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin processes, emerges as a promising solution to conventional production limitations. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr catalysts in these processes highlight the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, offers higher selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations, reducing costs and making it a sustainable, cost-effective option. By targeting propane conversion, PDH potentially lowers operating costs and addresses global propylene demand more efficiently than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers greater feedstock availability compared to conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This makes PDH a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner option, effectively meeting the increasing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, forecasted to grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035. It excels by exclusively producing propylene, enhancing product selectivity, and utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock from shale gas condensates. PDH's ability to regulate reaction conditions and kinetics inhibits side reactions, boosting propylene selectivity and productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has made shale gas extraction cost-effective, significantly lowering gas costs and favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the favorable price differential between propane and propylene. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins like propylene with polymer-quality purity, offering an advantage over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane to propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. It demonstrates enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, notably due to the high catalytic activity of the CoSiBeta catalyst. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges, particularly in product selectivity and environmental impact, with a focus on developing a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for efficient processes, and boasting high propylene selectivity for superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts Co-based catalysts' performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, with high propylene selectivity. Leveraging the abundance and lower cost of propane from advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, ensuring a reliable and economical route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower costs and adaptability to feedstock changes make it a competitive choice, overcoming limitations of traditional naphtha and coal-based methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing conventional challenges. It offers high activity and yields but faces limitations due to high temperatures causing coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing increasing propene demand and decreasing fossil oil resources. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane to propene, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical solution for the growing global demand for propylene, offering process efficiency and less dependency on dwindling petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature, endothermic nature of PDH leads to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, making PDH the most promising method.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking methods in propylene production. Its significance grows with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenge of feedstock availability, disrupted by the availability of ethylene from ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas, making PDH an on-purpose method for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity and selectivity for propylene, enhance PDH's efficiency, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane resources and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on depleting petroleum resources, making it a promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, making PDH economically and environmentally viable, especially in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in high-temperature operations for high yields. Its endothermic reaction highlights the critical role of developing high-performance catalysts for enhanced efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional method challenges. PDH uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, is promising but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally beneficial, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with green propane, can transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the global propylene demand gap. It offers high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and cost-efficient choice in the current industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts, offers a promising solution for propylene production, addressing global demand. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH advantageous in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages for propylene production, boasting high catalyst activity, selectivity, and stability. By employing encapsulated nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing global demand while providing environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane supply for propylene production. It addresses the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods by efficiently converting propane directly to propylene. PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity advantages make it an emerging and more efficient technology for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from diverse sources like shale gas, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, improving on conventional methods. PDH processes are efficient and selective, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene selectivity compared to traditional techniques. This technology efficiently utilizes shale gas resources and selectively activates CH bonds of light alkanes, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to traditional processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, using abundant propane, emerges as a sustainable production method. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH is more energy-efficient, emits less CO2 and NOx, and has higher propylene selectivity. This makes PDH an attractive alternative to meet the growing need for propylene, a vital chemical raw material for products like polypropylene and propylene oxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues of coke formation and sintering, common in conventional processes, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant shale gas, reduces reliance on oil-based sources. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and lower toxicity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a crucial industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional techniques. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, as highlighted by Quote 4, make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, utilizing abundant shale gas to boost propylene output, as mentioned in Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers key advantages in propylene production: lower costs, enhanced efficiency, and improved selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a high-performance catalyst further boosts these benefits, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, promoting environmental friendliness and longer reactive longevity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand, overcoming conventional method limitations by improving feedstock efficiency, process efficacy, and product selectivity, despite challenges with Pt-based catalyst stability and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, offers key advantages in propylene production by potentially improving process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Its ability to use shale gas addresses feedstock availability challenges, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propene production with high selectivity and onstream stability. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle with fossil energy consumption and meeting increasing demands. PDH directly addresses these issues by offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a viable solution. Conventional methods are hindered by the toxicity of chromium and platinum's high cost, limiting scalability. PDH, utilizing earth-abundant cobalt-based catalysts, offers a sustainable and efficient alternative, addressing the need for new catalysts in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes like steam cracking. This method offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging cost-effective propane and butane, easily adapting existing facilities, and delivering high propylene selectivity and efficiency, effectively overcoming the constraints of conventional methods amid rising global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in efficient and selective propylene production, ensuring stable supply and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically sound choice over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and selectivity challenges, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, underscoring PDH's promise in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a superior method for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propene. It employs cost-effective, nontoxic zinc-based catalysts enhanced with Ni, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an advantageous alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and lower CO2 emissions compared to conventional methods. The fracking boom has made propane feedstocks cost-effective for PDH. PDH plants are adaptable and highly profitable, thanks to the price differential between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. The use of advanced catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, significantly boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent advancements, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2 in an atom-economic reaction. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, PDH can closely approach ideal results with suitable catalysts and optimized conditions. This energy-intensive process reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions, emphasizing the importance of catalysts with practical engineering performance. PDH's use of propane as feedstock, high conversion rates, and selectivity address conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to traditional methods. It leverages shale gas exploitation for exclusive olefin selectivity, unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature offer process efficiency benefits. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially in PDH, due to propylene's lower stability compared to ethylene. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields, and lower costs compared to conventional methods. It utilizes propane from natural gas, refinery off-gases, and petrochemical processes, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using widely available propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, addresses feedstock availability. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Its operation under atmospheric pressure enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, especially with indium-based catalysts, is advantageous for meeting growing global propylene demand due to its high stability and selectivity. The low cost of propane from shale gas makes PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, indicates efforts to further improve PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane in shale-gas deposits, catalytic PDH emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH processes like Oleflex and Catofin face challenges due to high Pt costs and Cr toxicity, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts. This aligns with overcoming conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a viable solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. It utilizes abundant propane, simplifies the process with a single reactor, and is more sustainable and cost-effective, especially in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a superior option for meeting global propylene demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, offering enhanced efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice, particularly in shale gas-rich areas. Its targeted conversion minimizes by-product formation, meeting propylene demand while reducing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its exclusive propylene production, enhanced by abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock from hydraulic fracturing. It directly addresses the growing global demand for propylene, projected to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035, by offering superior efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing prices and PDH opportunities. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the propane-propylene price differential, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, making it a market favorite.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, offering superior feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH highlight enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which suffer from high costs, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation, the need for a green and affordable PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's environmental and economic advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficiently inhibiting overoxidation, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts enhance performance and anti-coke stability, providing an advantage over conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production due to its high selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. Enhanced by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene. It taps into abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs and process efficiency, directly addressing challenges faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH, using Pt- and CrOx catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing conventional challenges. It boasts high activity and yields but faces issues at high temperatures, affecting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, converting propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing dwindling fossil oil resources and growing market demand. By utilizing abundant propane, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct conversion process from propane to propylene, is economically advantageous and addresses the limitations of conventional methods by offering an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available and shortest route for propylene production, PDH is highlighted in processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, the process's endothermic nature and high temperature requirements facilitate side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, as indicated by the challenges of thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based methods in propylene production. Its role is expanding with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt have health risks and deactivation issues. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, show promise in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets high global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It overcomes conventional method challenges, notably feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency with superior propane-to-propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a cost-effective alternative to traditional propylene production methods, directly addressing the challenges of conventional routes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses limitations of conventional methods by ensuring sufficient supply without depleting petroleum resources, making it a viable and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, offers a flexible feedstock option, reducing reliance on costly naphtha. Its single-step conversion process boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use, leading to lower costs and higher propylene yields. The modular design enables localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH a viable economic and environmental solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand by overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, underscores the need for high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using renewable green propane, offers high spacetime yields and addresses global propylene demand. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, it avoids coke formation, and compared to ODH-O2, it mitigates overoxidation issues with promising boron-based catalysts. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, improving CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, and utilizing abundant elements for low-temperature CO2 activation. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, effectively addressing the global demand and outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. Zinc, particularly in Zn@S-1 form, is an alternative catalyst with good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating PDH's potential to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Environmentally friendly and cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, achieving three times higher output at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, thereby demonstrating PDH's advantages in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process efficiently addresses the limitations of conventional methods, while the non-oxidative route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH utilizes shale gas resources sustainably and cost-effectively, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative to traditional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, using abundant propane as feedstock, enhancing availability. It's more energy-efficient with lower CO2 and NOx emissions, making it eco-friendly. PDH offers high selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are high-energy consuming and produce significant contaminants. This sustainable and efficient process is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing catalyst deactivation compared to conventional methods, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, reducing oil dependency. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, addressing challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, PDH technology stands out as the most promising production method. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering a cost-effective and environmentally sound pathway for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, which boosts the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, PDH's appeal is further strengthened.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and improved process efficiency and product selectivity over traditional methods. Developing an active, selective, and durable catalyst is key to enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. Its ability to efficiently activate CH bonds, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits make it a compelling choice. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the rising global demand for propylene, despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity, as highlighted by industry insights.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a high-temperature, endothermic process, excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas resources, enhancing feedstock availability. Its demand for stable, anti-sintering catalysts underlines its focus on process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Despite coke deposition, PDH's ability to convert shale gas into propylene makes it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene, particularly where steam cracking falls short. It offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, thanks to the development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts that show good onstream stability and high selectivity. These catalysts address the high cost and toxicity issues of conventional platinum and chromium-based catalysts, making PDH a more attractive alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-product generation. As propylene demand surges, PDH's efficiency and selectivity offer a superior alternative to conventional methods, effectively addressing their limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging increased propane reserves from shale-gas. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, notably the toxicity and high cost of Cr and Pt-based catalysts, by utilizing Co-based catalysts. Co's earth abundance suggests long-term sustainability for the propylene industry, making PDH a viable and advantageous alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high selectivity in converting propane directly into propylene, addressing global demand more efficiently and environmentally than conventional methods. PDH's resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact make it a superior choice, offering a more energy-efficient process with higher yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane, ease of integrating into existing facilities, and superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively tackling the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply, minimizing byproducts, and offering superior energy efficiency and economic viability compared to traditional oil-based methods, making it a sustainable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy intensity and reaction temperatures, which challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, reinforcing PDH's position as a promising method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from shale gas, efficiently meets rising propylene demand. It excels in conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, overcoming conventional method limitations. Zinc-based catalysts, boosted by Ni, enhance PDH's activity and stability, optimizing the process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process with high propylene selectivity, unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent and less efficient. Leveraging cheap propane from shale gas, PDH ensures abundant feedstock, while its adaptable factories enhance operational flexibility. The technology's profitability is bolstered by the growing propylene market and the favorable price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas feedstock, addresses availability issues and employs a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, which exhibits high efficiency, stability, and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand by improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing the growing global demand for propylene. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal performance, maximizing propane conversion and reducing costs. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion, reducing equipment investment and operation costs. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion with unselective thermal reactions, ensuring commercial viability and facilitating catalyst development. Utilizing widely available propane, PDH achieves high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, providing exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature enhance process efficiency, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. This makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher propene selectivity, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route that addresses conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from sources like shale gas to produce propylene with high yields and minimal byproducts, surpassing conventional steam cracking in efficiency and selectivity. Its operation at lower temperatures and pressures cuts energy use and greenhouse gas emissions, directly addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas as a steady, economical feedstock. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but efforts are being made to improve stability. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, exemplified by Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global demand for propylene and the cost-effectiveness of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, particularly with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Ongoing research on diverse catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, enhances PDH's efficiency, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, particularly due to abundant propane reserves in shale gas. Commercial PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, face challenges with the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr, highlighting the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts, a critical area for PDH technology development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, directly converting abundant and stable propane into propylene, unlike conventional methods that rely on limited feedstocks. It is more energy-efficient, has higher propylene selectivity, and simplifies the process by requiring only a single reactor, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, addressing the growing global demand. It utilizes abundant shale gas feedstock, enhancing sustainability and cost-effectiveness over conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH technology stands out for its efficiency. PDH exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing facilitates the extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, ensuring abundant and cost-effective feedstock. This method optimizes process efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, hiking prices and bolstering PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation yields pure propylene, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, offering a significant advantage in feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits superior catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, efficiently preventing overoxidation, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, effectively addressing conventional methods' challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity and efficiency. It overcomes limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in extraction, make PDH a cost-effective route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to meet growing demand more efficiently and cost-effectively than traditional methods. The abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady, affordable supply, making PDH a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges of conventional methods. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance process efficiency and product selectivity by optimizing geometric and electronic properties, improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and growing propene demand by improving process efficiency without hydrocarbon cracking or coke formation issues, which affect catalyst activity in other processes. PDH utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability and bypassing intermediate steps to reduce undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the limitations of conventional methods reliant on scarce petroleum resources. As a key petrochemical building block, propylene's production through PDH offers commercial availability via processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, the process's endothermic nature and high temperature requirements facilitate side reactions, such as cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing PDH's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and high costs. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, disrupted by ethylene availability from natural gas and shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Recognized for its efficiency and selectivity, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, achieving high process efficiency with a notable conversion rate of propane to propylene. It excels in propylene selectivity, reducing by-product formation. Modular implementation offers flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods, further enhanced by the use of active, selective, and regenerative vanadium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a viable solution for the increasing global need for propylene, utilizing the plentiful propane supply and capitalizing on the significant price differential between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional production methods, which are constrained by dwindling petroleum resources, PDH ensures adequate propylene output, specifically tackling issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This makes PDH a superior alternative, as highlighted by its economic benefits and ability to meet market demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, offering higher efficiency, selectivity, and yields compared to conventional methods. Its modular plants enable flexible production, reducing dependence on expensive naphtha. PDH ensures a stable supply, lower energy consumption, and minimal byproducts, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method than traditional steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting escalating global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods by leveraging high-temperature conditions for optimal yields, due to the endothermic nature of the reaction. Developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity is crucial for PDH, ensuring efficient and selective propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr based catalysts, offers high spacetime yield and addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional processes, PDH avoids coke formation, necessitating regeneration. It can utilize renewable green propane, a sustainable alternative. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) with boron-based catalysts shows promise for improved selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and utilizing more abundant elements. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is crucial. PDH, with further development, can transform the manufacturing landscape of propylene, a key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap and abundant propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for the growing global demand for propylene. It offers high selectivity to propylene with hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap more efficiently than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Zinc, an abundant and non-toxic metal, is a viable alternative catalyst, especially given the scarcity of platinum and chromium toxicity. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, with notable regeneration capability, underscoring PDH's potential for industrial use in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, through innovative catalyst design that encapsulates nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. This design achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness without relying on non-noble metals, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits and enhanced productivity. A new ZnO-based catalyst boosts PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional catalysts under industrial conditions, directly addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for stable, cost-effective propane feedstock, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity in propylene production. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, consuming less energy and better aligning with demand-supply dynamics, making it a more efficient and emerging industry standard.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity for propylene production. Its catalytic processes selectively convert propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH specifically addresses challenges by efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds for higher propylene yields, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock for enhanced efficiency and reduced emissions, directly addressing the growing global demand with superior product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Its energy-efficient and environmentally benign process makes it a desirable alternative, as propylene is a crucial raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with traditional energy-intensive methods that emit high CO2 levels. Utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves superior conversion of propane to propylene with high selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Its vanadium oxide catalysts outperform conventional options, enhancing reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. These advancements lead to improved process efficiency, product selectivity, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, addressing challenges in conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, spotlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a leading solution. PDH, favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, addresses challenges in conventional propylene production methods. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas further boosts PDH's appeal for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly addresses the global demand for propylene. Its key advantages include improved feedstock availability, higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity over traditional methods. The development of a superior catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, while efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity contribute to environmental benefits, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global demand for propylene, offering improvements over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, central to PDH, face issues of stability and selectivity, underscoring the need for advancements in this promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, despite its high-temperature requirements, leverages abundant shale gas resources for propylene production, addressing feedstock availability. Challenges include catalyst deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts are sought to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, as coke formation is inevitable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, addressing challenges of conventional methods. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH show promise with high selectivity and stability, targeting disadvantages like high platinum costs and chromium toxicity in current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out due to its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation. Conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demands efficiently. PDH offers a promising solution by producing propylene with less waste and higher efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Conventional methods using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts struggle with Cr toxicity and Pt's high cost. Cobalt-based catalysts, effective in PDH and abundant, offer a sustainable alternative, addressing the limitations of current production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It outperforms conventional methods by using resources more effectively and minimizing environmental impact, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane feedstocks, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting growing global demand by easily retrofitting existing facilities.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a feedstock, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It ensures stable production, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice. PDH's energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity minimize oil-based feedstock dependency and streamline production, enhancing economic viability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the shift to light alkanes, due to shale gas and natural gas, for efficient propylene production. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy requirements and selectivity issues at high temperatures, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these challenges, enhancing PDH's viability as a leading propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, meets escalating global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, while cost-effective and non-toxic, have improved activity and stability with moderate Ni introduction into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, targeting propylene production specifically, overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Its on-purpose process avoids mixed hydrocarbon products. Fracking's advent has slashed feedstock costs, making PDH highly profitable due to the propylene-propane price differential and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, addressing availability issues. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 exhibit high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, boosting process efficiency and product yield, thus overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being energy-intensive, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion rates, as per Quote 4. Increasing reaction temperature and reducing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures enhance propane conversion, crucial for cost reduction. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation, making it a promising solution for growing propylene demand, as highlighted in Quote 3.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It complements traditional methods, harnessing shale gas to meet escalating global demand. PDH's efficiency advantages and use of abundant alkanes address challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Efficient catalysts are pivotal for high olefin selectivity, particularly in PDH, due to propylene's lower stability compared to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane feedstock, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, and achieves high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity, reducing unwanted outputs. PDH's lower temperature and pressure operation improves efficiency, cuts energy use, and diminishes greenhouse gas emissions, offering superior product selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with current technology. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas production, operating efficiently under atmospheric pressure. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specialized catalysts, but face challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Escalating global demand for propylene and the cost-effectiveness of shale gas-derived propane have renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into a variety of catalysts indicates efforts to further enhance PDH technology, making it a promising solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, offers an alternative feedstock, potentially higher efficiency, and selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies production, reducing costs and potentially lowering operating expenses, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas to convert low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution, especially in shale-rich areas. This method boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products, making it cleaner and more targeted than conventional methods. PDH is well-positioned to meet growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, offering superior product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene. It leverages abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. With propylene demand forecasted to grow at 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are pivotal in bridging the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging the shale gas boom to ensure feedstock availability at reduced costs. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and highlighting PDH's profitability, especially given the favorable price gap between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, offering a strategic edge over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting abundant propane to propylene, excels in feedstock availability. It features high efficiency and selectivity, notably with the CoSiBeta catalyst, surpassing conventional methods. The quest for a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst underscores its commitment to environmental responsibility and product quality, overcoming traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, effectively addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production, offering high selectivity and addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering streamlined single-feedstock and single-product processes, enhancing efficiency. It utilizes abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a cost-effective supply chain. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs, directly addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by tuning properties, improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges by utilizing propane, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, and improving process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical solution for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand amidst dwindling petroleum resources. It offers a shorter production route by converting propane to propylene, surpassing conventional methods. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can cause side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing PDH's industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production. Its growing significance is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and cost issues, respectively. Recent advancements in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, address these challenges in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. As ethylene from natural gas and shale gas becomes less available, PDH offers a solution, making it a promising method for meeting the high global demand for propylene with improved product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propylene production, boasting high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a superior alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. By not depending on depleting petroleum, PDH ensures a sufficient supply of propylene, meeting the escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and selectivity result in lower operating costs and environmental impact, making it a sustainable and cost-effective propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, necessitates the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using active Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and limiting overoxidation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, shows promise but risks overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, prioritizing abundant elements and low temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas as a cheap feedstock, offers high selectivity to propylene and produces valuable hydrogen, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient, thus addressing global propylene demand more effectively than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high dehydrogenation activity with 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K and regeneration capability. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods by enhancing feedstock flexibility and environmental friendliness, driven by the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods by achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability with cost-efficient catalysts. A notable catalyst design encapsulates nanoparticles into a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, controlling ZnO nanoparticle size and enhancing stability at high temperatures. This results in high propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, underscoring PDH's effectiveness in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits and improved efficiency. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances propene productivity, maintaining similar selectivity, thereby addressing the challenges of conventional methods and demonstrating PDH's superiority.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. This direct conversion method is more efficient and selective than conventional processes, addressing the demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is an emerging technology that optimizes production, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods. Its use of propane from shale gas sources makes it more sustainable and cost-effective, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs and efficiently activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable solution for propylene production, addressing growing demand. It's more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, emitting less CO2 and NOx. PDH has higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, unlike complex traditional methods. This makes PDH a promising method to meet the increasing need for propylene, a crucial raw material in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior method for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges by providing economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It uses less energy and emits less CO2. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, common issues that cause catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using vanadium oxide catalysts, excels in propylene production, particularly in shale gas-rich areas, offering better feedstock availability than oil-based sources. It boasts improved reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. These advancements contribute to PDH's competitive edge, cost-effectiveness, and lower toxicity, making it a viable solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in meeting the soaring global demand for propylene, estimated at 116 million tons in 2020. It outshines conventional methods by offering cost-effective and environmentally sound production, making it the preferred choice. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH optimally utilizes low-valued propane, a byproduct of shale gas extraction, ensuring efficient and sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. A highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt-based catalysts, offers enhanced propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the heavy demand in the feedstock market. It surpasses conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, with environmental benefits due to efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, improves feedstock use, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Pt-based catalyst limitations highlight the need for PDH advancements, crucial for meeting demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process utilizing platinum-based catalysts, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Its ability to use abundant shale gas resources as feedstock highlights its advantage in feedstock availability, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production due to its onstream stability and high selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike steam cracking, which struggles to increase propylene production further, PDH offers a more direct and efficient route from propane, highlighting its potential in meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products, offering a more efficient and selective process compared to conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with fossil energy consumption. PDH's advantages make it a promising solution for meeting propylene demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co-based catalysts, is a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, which are hindered by Cr toxicity and Pt cost. Co's earth abundance ensures PDH's long-term viability, making it a key method to meet global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high propylene selectivity, converting abundant propane efficiently. It excels over conventional methods by being less energy-intensive, yielding more propylene, and offering enhanced resource efficiency with a reduced environmental footprint.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, utilizing affordable propane as feedstock, achieving higher propylene selectivity, and enhancing process efficiency compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, ensuring stable supply and minimized byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable solution for global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging light alkanes from shale and natural gas, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges. Despite high energy demands and selectivity issues at elevated temperatures, the active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates side reactions and coke formation, as evidenced by its success in enhancing selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The introduction of moderate Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances both activity and stability, making PDH a superior method for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent and less selective. PDH benefits from affordable propane feedstocks due to fracking, and its plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability in the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, addresses feedstock availability issues. Efficient catalysts, exemplified by a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, demonstrating high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely recognized for converting propane to high-value propylene and H2, offers an atom-economic reaction. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion. Strategies to increase propane conversion, such as adjusting temperature and pressure, are crucial for commercial viability. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties enhance process efficiency. The technology specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, utilizing alkanes as feedstocks. Efficient catalysts are crucial for achieving high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources. It offers higher selectivity to propene, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution that addresses the limitations of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene selectivity and efficiency, operating under milder conditions than conventional steam cracking. It achieves high yields with minimal byproducts, reducing energy consumption. Pt-based catalysts enhance selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low CC cleavage activity, minimizing unwanted byproducts. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH potentially decrease greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, capitalizing on abundant propane from natural gas and shale, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite catalyst deactivation challenges, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Indium-based catalysts show promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into various catalysts reflects efforts to improve PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for propylene production. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering an alternative to conventional methods. While commercial PDH processes face limitations, particularly high catalyst costs and environmental concerns, the technology's potential highlights the need for developing more cost-effective and eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, offers higher selectivity, lower energy use, and cost-effectiveness. It uses abundant propane, simplifying the process and reducing costs, making it a sustainable alternative, especially in propane-rich regions. PDH's efficiency and selectivity address global propylene demand challenges, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant low-value propane into high-value propylene, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a widely employed commercial solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2-3% annual rise in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology stands out for its direct and exclusive propylene production, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts access to plentiful, cost-effective propane feedstock, addressing conventional methods' limitations. PDH's targeted process inhibits side reactions, improving propylene productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging abundant shale gas to address feedstock scarcity. Enhanced shale gas extraction has slashed gas costs, favoring shale-based ethane over naphtha. This shift has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's appeal. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, while its on-purpose technique ensures high-purity olefin production, making it a market favorite.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH employs a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, tackling product selectivity and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Propane, a widely available feedstock, further enhances its advantages over conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for propylene production, offering high selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a single-feedstock/single-product process that enhances efficiency. It capitalizes on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply, unlike traditional naphtha and coal methods which struggle to meet demand. PDH's lower costs and product selectivity make it a competitive choice, addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. It operates at high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, but nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity, addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. It directly converts abundant propane into propene, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues that decrease catalyst activity and stability, unlike conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, the most economical direct route for propylene production, addresses growing global demand amid dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH converts propane to propylene. However, high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, posing a challenge for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, is a leading propylene production method, addressing environmental and efficiency challenges. Its contribution grows with new plants. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh, show high activity in dehydrogenation, offering a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets the rising global demand for propylene, offering key advantages over conventional production methods. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution in the context of limitations faced by traditional approaches.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is more efficient and cost-effective than conventional methods, with vanadium-based catalysts enhancing activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenge of meeting growing propylene demand amidst depleting petroleum resources. Leveraging abundant propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on dwindling oil resources, making it a promising solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, reducing reliance on expensive naphtha. Its single-step conversion process from propane to propylene boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Modular PDH plants offer flexibility and lower transportation costs, making the technology a sustainable and cost-effective solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, which requires high temperatures to achieve high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, which requires regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) lacks coke issues but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are promising for their activity and selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally beneficial but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its eco-friendly and cost-efficient production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability. It boasts high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by providing alternative non-petroleum feedstock, enhancing process efficiency, and achieving high product selectivity. Notably, the Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, and possesses regeneration capability, making it a viable option for industrial PDH processes, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Demonstrating its efficiency and selectivity, PDH achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion after nearly 6 hours on stream.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, highlighting its efficiency and environmental compatibility.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane feedstock. It directly converts propane to propylene efficiently, enhancing production. PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity surpass conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. As an emerging technology, PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, offering higher yields compared to conventional methods. PDH's ability to efficiently utilize shale gas resources and selectively activate CH bonds of light alkanes makes it a promising method to address the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene efficiently, offering an alternative to less selective and efficient traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering better feedstock availability through abundant propane, higher efficiency, and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil. PDH directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing the growing global demand for this critical chemical raw material in an energy-efficient and environmentally friendly manner.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock, offers a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution for propylene production. Its vanadium oxide catalysts provide superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "With global propylene demand reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have boosted the conversion of low-valued propane, further enhancing PDH's appeal. Considering cost and environmental effects, PDH is often regarded as the most promising process for producing high-valued propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing growing demand and offering better feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. Compared to traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental benefits make it a leading choice. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing global demand efficiently and eco-friendly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, underscoring the need for enhanced PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, is advantageous for propylene production due to its high-temperature conversion process. It tackles feedstock availability issues, making it a promising method. However, catalyst deactivation from coke deposition remains a challenge, requiring frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering. Stable, anti-sintering catalysts are sought to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers a direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, addressing the growing global demand. These catalysts provide good stability and high selectivity, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. PDH aims to tackle high costs and toxicity, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene highlights the limitations of conventional production methods, particularly in feedstock availability and efficiency. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a solution, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. PDH's higher efficiency and lower waste production address the challenges of conventional methods, ensuring a sustainable supply of propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, particularly due to the viability of cobalt-based catalysts. Conventional PDH methods face challenges with Cr toxicity and Pt cost, making cobalt's earth abundance a significant advantage for long-term PDH application.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes for greater resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing conventional method limitations. Its adaptability to existing facilities makes it a promising solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a sustainable and economically viable solution for propylene production, excelling in efficiency and selectivity. It minimizes byproducts and reduces energy consumption, surpassing traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH's propane reliance ensures a stable feedstock, streamlining production and enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses conventional method limitations. It enhances feedstock efficiency, process economics, and product selectivity. Despite energy intensity and side reactions, the active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, positioning PDH as a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, excels in propylene production with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts in ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite boost catalytic activity and stability, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high selectivity and reduced fossil fuel dependence. It leverages the low cost of propane from shale gas, making it highly profitable due to the price gap between propylene and propane. PDH plants are adaptable, capable of various reactions, addressing the growing demand for propylene effectively.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements, addressing feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 in PDH processes exhibit high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely recognized for its atom-economic conversion of propane to high-value propylene and H2, addresses global demand challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results, offsetting high energy consumption. Increasing propane conversion is key to reducing costs, achieved through higher temperatures, lower hydrocarbon and H2 pressures. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demands for olefins. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties ensure high selectivity to olefins, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods. By utilizing abundant alkanes in shale gas, PDH overcomes limitations of traditional production techniques, ensuring efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, enhancing feedstock availability. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, thanks to Pt-based catalysts that effectively activate paraffinic CH bonds, boosting selectivity. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas production, including shale gas, provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient than high-pressure processes. It avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation. Commercial PDH processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use different catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at low pressure, Oleflex at 13 bar, and STAR at 56 bar. Catalyst deactivation and long-term stability remain challenges, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies is driven by the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, using catalysts like CrOx/Al2O3 and supported PtSn, is being improved through research on indium-based and other catalysts for higher stability and selectivity. This addresses conventional limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's further advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its use of propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor design simplifies the process, reducing costs and making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane to propylene, is a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global demand, utilizing abundant shale gas. Unlike traditional naphtha or oil cracking methods, PDH directly converts propane, offering higher efficiency and selectivity, resulting in a cleaner, targeted production process with minimized environmental impact and maximized economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made shale gas condensates, rich in propane, more accessible and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, not hybrid products, ensures high selectivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency is critical for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring its use in chemicals and fuels. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and underscoring the need for PDH. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the current propane-propylene price gap, and its on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike mixed olefin products from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane into propylene, offering feedstock advantages. CoSiBeta and CrOx/Pt catalysts in PDH processes demonstrate higher efficiency and selectivity than conventional methods. However, the need for green, affordable PDH catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene highlights ongoing challenges in product selectivity and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, offering feedstock flexibility and process optimization advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high propylene selectivity and cost-effectiveness, enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing inefficiencies of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    