Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane to produce propylene directly, addresses the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods by offering a simplified process. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its high activity and yields are advantageous, but the endothermic process requires high temperatures, causing issues like coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, improve efficiency and selectivity by better adsorbing propyl intermediates.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability. This method bypasses intermediate steps and reduces the likelihood of undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, petroleum-independent route for propylene conversion from propane, making it the most economical and shortest production method. However, PDH's high-temperature requirements for catalytic activity also facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and process efficiency. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking, addressing limitations of conventional methods. PDH's growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional production methods, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. PDH is highlighted as a non-oxidative process with high efficiency and low cost, making it an attractive alternative to conventional methods. The literature emphasizes the need for novel, non-noble metal-based catalysts, with vanadium-based catalysts emerging as a promising option due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods, which struggle to meet growing demand due to depleting petroleum resources. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without reliance on diminishing oil reserves, making it an effective solution for the petrochemical industry's needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on costly and less available naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, unlike multi-step conventional methods. This results in lower energy consumption and higher yields, making PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. Additionally, PDH's modular plants enable flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation requires high temperatures for high yields, highlighting the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity to meet the growing global demand for propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, is promising but can overoxidize, limiting propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with further development, can transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It leverages widely available, cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts show good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It achieves high activity, selectivity, and stability through environment-friendly and cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals. The encapsulation of NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support controls NP size and enhances stability. This results in high PDH performance, with propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's superiority in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock for stable and cost-effective light alkanes like propane. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, offering process and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle with demand-supply gaps. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in addressing the global demand for propylene. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable in supply than naphtha used in traditional methods. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. The technology can utilize propane from various sources, including shale gas, making it a sustainable and cost-effective feedstock option. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes, leading to higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and reduced environmental impact. Unlike conventional methods relying on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. The process is more energy-efficient and emits less CO2 and NOx, making it a sustainable choice. PDH's high selectivity for propylene, compared to the varied hydrocarbon outputs of traditional methods, makes it ideal for meeting the growing global demand for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, which reduces reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These catalysts are competitively performing, cost-effective, and less toxic, contributing to PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional methods due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further promoted the conversion of low-valued propane into high-value propylene, making PDH a preferred pathway.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene from propane, offering lower costs due to the use of abundant shale gas and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its potential benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH improves propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for PDH's advancements.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in meeting global propylene demand. It addresses feedstock availability by utilizing abundant shale gas resources, indicating its potential in propylene production. The need for stable, anti-sintering catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration highlights PDH's pursuit of process efficiency and product selectivity. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and regeneration, PDH's ability to utilize shale gas resources and its focus on developing improved catalysts make it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. The development of these novel catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones, offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology is gaining attention for its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet increasing needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane reserves highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. PDH processes, operating at high temperatures, face challenges due to the toxicity and cost of traditional catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising alternative, offering long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, addressing the need for new catalysts in the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, which can be sourced from various petrochemical processes. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene conversion, minimizing byproducts. This streamlined process is more cost-effective and sustainable than traditional methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, spurred by shale gas and natural gas. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The introduction of Ni into zinc-based catalysts enhances catalytic activity and stability, crucial for PDH's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH exceptionally affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price disparity between propylene and propane, and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economy and endothermic nature, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can be optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions to closely approach ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion through higher temperatures, lower hydrocarbon and H2 pressures. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by using abundant propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH using O2, CO2, and N2O. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency. PDH specifically addresses these issues by utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, ensuring high product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower production costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from various sources, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH offers high product selectivity, converting propane directly to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts. It improves process efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes enhances propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology. The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas provides abundant and economical propane feedstock. PDH operates efficiently without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation. This makes PDH a more selective and efficient process for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have spotlighted catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising production method. PDH processes, primarily the Oleflex and Catofin technologies, utilize PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity hinder PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, addressing limitations in feedstock availability. PDH provides higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The process is simplified by being performed in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and product selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by not relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, offering enhanced feedstock availability. It boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, making it a leading solution for meeting propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas condensates, rich in propane, are now abundant and cost-effective due to hydraulic fracturing advancements, enhancing feedstock access. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without byproducts, ensures high product selectivity. Regulating reaction conditions to boost propylene selectivity and productivity is crucial. With propylene demand projected to outpace production capacity, PDH's efficiency is vital for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has led to a drop in propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, making it a favorable choice in the current market.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH shows high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face problems like high cost, environmental issues, and rapid deactivation. PDH aims to overcome these challenges with a green, low-cost catalyst that maintains high reactivity and selectivity to propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides abundant and cost-effective propane for PDH, addressing feedstock issues. PDH inhibits overoxidation, improving efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes PDH from MTO and FTO processes, enhancing product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The active Co species and surface acid property, tuned by Ti species, contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the challenges of conventional methods. It is cost-effective and efficient, especially as shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction have made raw material propane more abundant and cheaper, enabling PDH to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, enhancing process efficiency. Its reliance on abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, addressing limitations of traditional methods. PDH's competitive edge lies in lower production costs and high product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, impacting C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can decrease catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It provides an alternative route for propylene production, crucial as petroleum resources dwindle. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production method, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, the process is highly endothermic and requires high temperatures, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, which challenge propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. The use of Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds to re-disperse Pt is also environmentally harmful. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading method for propylene production. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, unlike conventional methods. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking has disrupted the balance, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH emerges as a solution, offering advantages in meeting the growing demand for propylene while managing feedstock constraints.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources, offering cost-effective feedstock compared to naphtha. It boasts high process efficiency with a significant conversion rate of propane to propylene and high selectivity, reducing by-product formation. The modular nature of PDH allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity for propylene, and good regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH technology, which is an efficient and cost-effective alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet growing demand due to petroleum depletion. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without depleting oil resources, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on costly naphtha. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This technology's high yields and lower operating costs make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, given its endothermic reaction requiring high temperatures for high yields. Developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity is essential for PDH, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, typically achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative processes, and ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, improving propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap. It utilizes widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process makes PDH an attractive alternative to conventional methods, especially in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as an alternative, due to its earth-abundance and non-toxicity. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability through the use of cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. The encapsulation of nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support, controls the size of ZnO nanoparticles and prevents their loss at high temperatures. This design achieves propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by eliminating the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the need for chlorine in catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst, developed for PDH, exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient and selective, making it an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental benefits, and improved feedstock availability compared to conventional processes. It uses abundant propane, unlike naphtha and crude oil, reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks. PDH is more energy-efficient and emits less CO2 and NOx, making it a sustainable choice. It also has higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking in terms of energy efficiency and CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its ability to use propane from abundant shale gas resources, offering feedstock flexibility and reducing reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. The use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH provides superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution. Conventional production methods struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, but PDH addresses these by efficiently converting abundant low-valued propane into high-value propylene. The PDH process, alongside alternatives like MTP and WGSR, garners attention for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance propane utilization, making PDH a strategic choice for meeting the 116 million tons demand in 2020.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, widely used, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges in the field.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained attention for its potential in utilizing abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to irreversible sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to address the thermodynamic inevitability of coke deposition under PDH conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and good onstream stability, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods in terms of process efficiency and product selectivity. As the demand for propene cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process, PDH emerges as an attractive alternative. The development of novel catalysts for PDH, driven by the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high platinum prices and chromium toxicity, further highlights its potential advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. As a crucial component in the production of various chemicals, propylene's demand is increasing, and PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a promising solution to meet this demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the abundance of propane from shale-gas, PDH technology is gaining attention. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability, addressing the need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It outperforms conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking by being more energy-efficient and yielding higher propylene output. PDH also offers better resource utilization and a reduced environmental footprint compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, readily available from petrochemical processes, and the ease of retrofitting existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. It excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods, making it a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, driven by shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges, including feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which affect selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, as proven in practice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propene. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, provide cost-effective and nontoxic alternatives, improving catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely on fossil fuels and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process targets propylene, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, and PDH factories' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Advanced PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic reaction, where one mole of propane yields one mole of propylene and H2, showcases its efficiency. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion rates. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by increasing propane conversion, which reduces costs. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, are crucial for maximizing conversion while minimizing unselective reactions. This technology's selectivity and efficiency, using widely available propane, address conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It boasts higher selectivity to propene, leading to higher yields and lower production costs compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, addresses challenges in propylene production. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer high propylene selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts. This method improves efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, and offers higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the shale gas boom. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation issues and the production of COx, making it a more selective process for propylene. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use specific catalysts and operate under varying pressures, highlighting the technology's adaptability.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, particularly with indium-based catalysts, shows promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH technology, specifically the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for the PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher process efficiency and product selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. PDH utilizes abundant shale gas feedstock, specifically propane, to produce high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. This method boasts higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield compared to traditional steam cracking of naphtha and fluid catalytic cracking of heavier oil. PDH's targeted conversion process results in a cleaner production method, better suited to meet growing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits. Consequently, PDH is widely recognized as a sustainable, cost-effective, and efficient solution for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. It excels in feedstock availability, leveraging abundant shale gas condensates rich in propane. PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity are unmatched, as it exclusively produces propylene without byproducts. This proprietary method is pivotal as propylene demand is forecasted to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Demand for chemical building blocks, including propylene, has steadily increased in major markets, except the Eurozone, impacted by economic downturns. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enabled cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs since 2005. This has made shale gas a preferred feedstock for transportation fuels and chemicals. The abundance of cheap natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, has led to a shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., with new ethane crackers and the conversion of naphtha crackers. Ethane cracking's limited olefin production, excluding ethylene, has reduced propylene supply and increased its price, creating opportunities for PDH technology. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene, currently favorable. PDH's on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, not mixed products, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of the CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes indicate superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. This addresses the challenges of conventional production, which include limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. The urgent need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on environmental impact and product selectivity improvements.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas for feedstock, its ability to prevent overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and its high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property are pivotal in enhancing selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, propane feedstock is now more abundant and cost-effective, making PDH a superior choice for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock, single-product process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, unlike traditional methods that struggle to meet demand. PDH's lower production costs and wide raw material availability make it a competitive choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH offers high activity and yields. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not reliant on scarce petroleum resources. As a direct converter of propane to propylene, PDH is the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, particularly improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. Its growing role in meeting global demand is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, emerging as a key on-purpose production method. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking has disrupted the balance, necessitating innovative approaches for propylene production, where PDH stands out.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high process efficiency with a notable conversion rate of propane to propylene, and high selectivity minimizing by-product formation. Its modular implementation offers flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are a promising development for PDH, addressing the limitations of traditional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency due to depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative to traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less available naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plant design allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in addressing the growing global demand for propylene, especially due to its endothermic reaction nature, requiring high-temperature conditions for high yields. Developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity is crucial for PDH, highlighting its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology offers high spacetime yields, typically achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, making it a promising method for propylene production. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability by utilizing renewable green propane, which is gaining traction as a sustainable alternative. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) shows promise with boron-based catalysts that enhance selectivity and activity. The use of CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 catalysts need enhanced CO2 activation. Research should prioritize abundant chemical elements and low-temperature CO2 activation to transform propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It utilizes widely available cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. The development of Zn-based catalysts, like Zn-4@S-1, offers a promising alternative due to the scarcity and toxicity issues of current catalysts. Zn-4@S-1 exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability. A specific PDH catalyst, designed with encapsulated NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, demonstrates high propene selectivity (about 90%) at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, showcasing the technology's effectiveness in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, demonstrating three times higher output than a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, increasing production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often result in a demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology today.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages over conventional propylene production methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH ensures a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity, selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from diverse sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, such as fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking, make it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its conversion of low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. Unlike conventional methods that use naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, improving feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. PDH's higher selectivity for propylene, compared to traditional processes, makes it an attractive alternative. The use of propane, sourced from natural gas, reduces dependence on oil-based feedstocks, and the process's efficiency and lower emissions contribute to its sustainability. PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with traditional methods that require high energy and emit significant CO2. Utilizing a specific catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus addressing catalyst deactivation issues faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its reliance on propane, particularly relevant in regions with abundant shale gas, reducing dependence on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating process efficiency and product selectivity benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the leading method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020. Among alternatives like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental impact. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced propane conversion from shale gas, further solidifying PDH's position as the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further enhance these benefits, making it a more direct and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. Despite issues with Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity, PDH remains a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its potential in utilizing abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. The need for stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration is highlighted, addressing the challenge of catalyst deactivation. PDH's ability to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration offers advantages in feedstock availability, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. This suggests PDH may offer a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, addressing challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Propylene, a key chemical precursor, is increasingly in demand, and PDH offers a more efficient and selective process, making it a promising solution to meet global needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas are driving interest in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). PDH operates at high temperatures and faces challenges with toxic and expensive catalysts, necessitating innovation. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising solution, offering long-term viability due to Co's earth abundance, addressing the need for new catalysts in the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes like steam cracking, offering higher efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of readily available propane and butane as feedstocks, produced by various petrochemical processes. It offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment, making PDH a promising solution for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional methods, ensuring stable propylene production and reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks. This streamlined process results in higher yields and lower costs, making PDH a sustainable choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift from naphtha to light alkanes, particularly due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses feedstock availability challenges. PDH, being energy-intensive due to high reaction temperatures, faces selectivity and catalyst stability issues, leading to cracking and coking. However, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these challenges, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging widely available propane from shale gas, is recognized for its effectiveness in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, utilizing cost-effective and nontoxic zinc-based catalysts enhanced by Ni introduction, which boosts catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap propane feedstocks, a byproduct of fracking, and its factories' adaptability. The price difference between propylene and propane, coupled with growing market demand, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas as feedstock, addressing availability issues, and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity with high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic reaction, endothermic nature, and optimization through catalysts and conditions make it highly efficient and selective. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing propane conversion, achieved through temperature and pressure adjustments. This process specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, and optimizing conditions for commercial viability and catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's thermodynamic properties and efficiency make it a superior choice, utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, which are abundant in shale gas, thus specifically addressing issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It boasts higher selectivity to propene, leading to increased yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH provide high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues are challenges, but ongoing efforts aim to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids the issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high costs and environmental concerns, PDH technologies are being improved through the investigation of alternative catalysts, including indium-based ones, which show promise for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlighting efforts to enhance PDH technology's efficiency and address challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, Oleflex and Catofin, use PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively, but the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr limit their development. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, addressing limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Using propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH offers a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to conventional methods. It provides higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective, and viable alternative, especially in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several advantages over conventional production methods. It utilizes abundant propane from shale gas as a feedstock, addressing the limitations of traditional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil. PDH's high process efficiency and product selectivity, with minimal by-product formation, make it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology directly converts propane into propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for direct propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, making feedstock more affordable and abundant. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without hybrid products, enhances selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking installations has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. Additionally, PDH is an on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of the CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and fast deactivation. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from hybrid MTO and FTO products.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The active Co species, tuned by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. Enhanced by the abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and process simplicity make it a competitive choice over traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising on-purpose propylene production method. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock efficiency and product selectivity. However, high temperatures required for PDH can lead to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, affecting propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane to high-value propene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand by efficiently converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity. This process improves efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane, avoiding intermediate steps and undesired side reactions, and utilizes propane as a key raw material for chemical production.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering an economical and direct route from propane. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by not relying on scarce petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH meets the growing demand for propylene, a key petrochemical. However, the high-temperature requirement for PDH catalysis leads to challenges in propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, necessitating the development of more efficient catalysts for industrial-scale production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking technologies. PDH uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, and its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing PDH's challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Previously, the balance of ethylene and propylene demand was met by naphtha crackers, but the rise of ethane cracking has disrupted this, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH emerges as an efficient process capable of meeting large-scale propylene demand, highlighting its advantages over traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-product formation. PDH's modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, it has gained attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. Compared to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, PDH offers high efficiency and lower costs. The literature highlights the need for novel non-noble metal catalysts, with vanadium-based catalysts emerging as a promising option due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the price differential between propane and propylene. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to dwindling petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a critical method in addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas production, addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It reduces dependence on expensive, less available naphtha, offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. Compared to steam cracking, PDH has lower operating costs, higher yields, and is more sustainable, making it a promising and economically viable option for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction that requires high temperatures for high yields. This approach offers advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) avoids coke but risks overoxidation. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future PDH catalyst design should improve propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes using green propane could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency. It utilizes widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, offering an alternative to non-petroleum based methods. It addresses challenges in conventional production by employing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, though the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. This development in catalysts enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine regeneration. The innovation of ZnO-based catalysts further boosts PDH's environmental compatibility and efficiency, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the demand-supply gap of propene. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient and selective, making it an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in meeting the growing global demand for propylene by addressing limitations of conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production as it converts low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and FCC processes. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher energy efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity for propylene. Unlike conventional methods relying on limited naphtha and crude oil, PDH leverages widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, with lower emissions. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it an attractive solution for the growing demand for this key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it reduces reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It overcomes limitations of conventional techniques by optimizing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. In 2020, the demand reached approximately 116 million tons, underscoring the need for efficient production methods. PDH, alongside MTP and WGSR, has gained attention, but its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, leveraging abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further enhance these benefits, making it an attractive option in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the heavy demand in the feedstock market. It offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH utilizes Pt-based catalysts, enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it an environmentally friendly and efficient choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, have short-term stability issues and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It benefits from the increased availability of propane from shale gas exploration, making it a promising method for utilizing abundant feedstocks. PDH faces challenges with catalyst deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to sintering under high-temperature conditions. Research is focused on developing anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that remain stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity without requiring oxychlorination regeneration. This highlights PDH's potential in meeting the growing global demand for propylene while overcoming limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. The development of these catalysts addresses the disadvantages of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. It leverages abundant propane feedstock, reduces by-products, and overcomes the limitations of fossil energy-dependent processes like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and the abundance of propane from shale-gas, PDH technology is gaining attention. Conventional PDH processes, like Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt catalysts. This restricts industry growth and highlights the need for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, produced by various petrochemical processes, as feedstocks. It can be easily retrofitted into existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, achieves higher yields with lower byproduct formation, and is more energy-efficient and cost-effective than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift from naphtha to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas abundance (Quote 2). It tackles conventional method limitations by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking (Quotes 1, 3, and 4), PDH's challenges are mitigated through the effective active site isolation strategy (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial method for propene production, addressing the global demand for propylene and its role in manufacturing polypropylene and other industrial products. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni offer lower cost, nontoxicity, enhanced catalytic activity, and stability. PDH specifically tackles conventional production challenges by using abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane-rich shale gas, a key PDH feedstock, extremely affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its advantages include high energy efficiency, enhanced product selectivity, and the ability to operate under optimized conditions that closely approach ideal states with suitable catalysts. Increasing propane conversion through measures like temperature adjustment and pressure control reduces costs. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, and minimizing by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to methanol-to-olefins, Fischer-Tropsch to olefins, and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods. This technology specifically utilizes alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's higher selectivity to propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and advantageous approach.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproducts, and operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas production. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology compared to conventional methods. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. However, challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies are being optimized to address the limitations of conventional methods, with a focus on indium-based catalysts for their high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicating efforts to enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits highlight the potential of catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH, utilizing two primary technologies—Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst—addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development, underscoring the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane as a feedstock, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha and heavy oil fractions used in conventional methods. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology specifically targets propane conversion to propylene, leading to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. PDH addresses conventional methods' challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering a more sustainable and cost-effective solution, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity result in a cleaner, targeted production process, better meeting demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly yielding propylene without byproducts, enhancing product selectivity. Shale gas condensates, rich in propane, are now abundantly extracted through hydraulic fracturing, ensuring cheaper and plentiful feedstock. As propylene demand is forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity are crucial for meeting this demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs. This has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, due to the latter's abundance and lower cost. However, ethane cracking primarily yields ethylene, not propylene, leading to a propylene supply drop and price surge. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. PDH's on-purpose nature and ability to produce polymer-quality olefins exclusively, unlike conventional methods, further highlight its advantages.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in converting abundant, low-cost propane into high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability challenges. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH highlight enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. This underscores PDH's role in meeting the growing global demand for propylene while aiming to develop a green, cost-effective catalyst with superior reactivity and selectivity, tackling environmental impact and product selectivity issues of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its key advantages: abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock from shale gas extraction, effective inhibition of overoxidation enhancing process efficiency, and high propylene selectivity distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts significantly enhance PDH performance, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' issues of low selectivity and high energy consumption. The abundance and lower cost of propane, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, addresses the limitations of traditional methods. PDH's competitive edge lies in its lower production costs, making it a preferred choice to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but faces issues at high temperatures, such as coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cheaper propane as a feedstock, converting it directly into propene with high selectivity. This addresses the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand for propene, unlike conventional methods that rely on steam cracking and fluidized catalytic cracking of naphtha. PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing the likelihood of undesired side reactions, making it economically competitive.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses conventional production challenges by providing an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process's high-temperature requirements facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking technologies. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, addressing sustainability. New PDH plants indicate its growing contribution. However, conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt have health risks and cost issues. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, emerging as a key solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted in the literature, are highly active, selective, and regenerative, making them a promising choice for PDH, which is an on-purpose non-oxidative process gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle with feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on dwindling oil reserves, making it a viable alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and scarce naphtha. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption compared to multi-step processes. PDH's modular plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic reaction requires high temperatures for high yields, necessitating the development of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts. This approach optimizes propylene production, offering a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving selectivity. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) have emerged, with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts showing promise but facing overoxidation issues. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas as a cheap feedstock. It offers high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient. This technology is particularly advantageous due to the availability of propane from shale gas, which can be converted into propylene with high efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, as a promising alternative. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes. The in-situ reduction of zinc species identifies partially reduced zinc cations as active sites for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using environment-friendly and cost-efficient catalysts without non-noble metals, offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. The encapsulation of nanoparticles in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support controls the size of ZnO nanoparticles, preventing their loss at high temperatures. This design achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours on stream, demonstrating PDH's promise in meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's environmental compatibility, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source of propane. It directly transforms propane to propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering a feedstock-independent alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process optimization.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and offers higher selectivity for propylene, making it an environmentally friendly and efficient alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. Using an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, thus reducing catalyst deactivation. This addresses the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock availability. It offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages, particularly through the use of supported vanadium oxide catalysts, which achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. Compared to alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR), PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it ideal for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane, sourced from abundant shale gas, into propylene, underscoring PDH's role in meeting demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It directly produces propylene, addressing the growing demand and offering better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a selective PDH catalyst further improves process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Notably, the use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, face issues of short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved catalysts in this promising process.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to use shale gas feedstock highlights its advantage in product selectivity and feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production is gaining prominence due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it an attractive alternative. As a critical component for various chemicals, propylene's demand is increasing, but conventional production methods like naphtha steam cracking are strained by fossil energy consumption, limiting their ability to meet this demand. PDH's efficiency and selectivity offer a solution to these challenges, ensuring a sustainable and effective production method.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and increased propane reserves, PDH technology is gaining attention. Current PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, are emerging as a solution, addressing the need for efficiency and sustainability in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its high propylene selectivity, directly converting widely available propane into propylene. It offers a more efficient use of resources and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, bypassing energy-intensive processes like steam cracking. This makes PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as a feedstock, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It addresses challenges by utilizing existing facilities, making it a promising method for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It ensures stable propylene supply, achieves higher yields with less complex separation processes, and minimizes byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and challenges in selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles issues of cracking and deep dehydrogenation, as shown by recent developments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, while cost-effective and non-toxic, have limitations in activity and stability. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite significantly enhances both catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a superior method for propylene production compared to conventional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It addresses conventional methods' limitations by utilizing cheap propane-rich shale gas, made possible by fracking. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price difference between propylene and propane, and the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely recognized for propylene production, is atom-economic, converting propane directly to propylene and H2, both high-value products. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by its efficiency and selectivity, reducing equipment and operation costs. By using propane, PDH ensures feedstock availability and high conversion rates, addressing conventional method challenges. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring practical application.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the abundant shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH's thermodynamic properties and process efficiency make it superior to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which struggle with feedstock limitations and efficiency issues. Efficient and selective activation of the CH bond in PDH is crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower production costs, making it an attractive catalytic route for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. PDH utilizes widely available propane as feedstock, offering high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. This process offers higher product selectivity and lower byproduct formation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its ability to address challenges faced by conventional methods. The surge in natural gas production, including shale gas, ensures a steady supply of propane, a key feedstock for PDH. This technology offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology, making it more efficient and cost-effective. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, particularly with indium-based catalysts, shows promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers a promising alternative to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, primarily the Oleflex and Catofin technologies, utilize PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively, but the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a key challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane as a feedstock, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha and heavy oil fractions used in conventional methods. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs by performing in a single reactor. This technology is more sustainable and cost-effective, targeting propane conversion to propylene for higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative in regions with abundant propane supply and a more efficient option for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting it directly into high-value propylene. This method offers higher process efficiency and selectivity, targeting propane conversion with minimal by-product formation, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's ability to turn low-value propane into value-added propylene makes it a key solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly producing propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Shale gas condensates, abundant in propane, are now easily extractable due to hydraulic fracturing, ensuring plentiful and cost-effective feedstock. Propylene demand is projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, underscoring the significance of PDH's efficiency and selectivity in meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The steady rise in demand for chemical building blocks, except in the Eurozone due to economic downturns, and the cost-effective extraction of shale gas have significantly lowered gas costs. This has led to a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking, resulting in a drop in propylene supply and a price surge. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity olefins, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant and low-cost propane into valuable propylene, addressing feedstock availability challenges. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of CoSiBeta catalysts in PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues of high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to overcome the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides abundant and cost-effective propane, addressing feedstock concerns. PDH inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity sets it apart from methanol-to-olefin and Fischer-Tropsch to olefin processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' inefficiencies. Enhanced by abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is cost-effective and meets growing propylene demand efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensures a steady and cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, directly converting abundant and cheaper propane into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing propane as a feedstock, improving feedstock availability. This process avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst activity and stability. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propene improves process efficiency and product selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial petrochemical building block. As petroleum resources dwindle, PDH offers an alternative, commercially available route for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene more economically and efficiently than conventional methods. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology, particularly in improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking technologies. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plants under construction. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. The use of Cl2 to re-disperse platinum is also environmentally harmful. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency in meeting the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. Traditionally, ethylene and propylene demand was balanced by naphtha crackers, but the surge in ethylene from ethane cracking disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH emerges as a solution, addressing feedstock availability challenges and ensuring process efficiency, making it a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods, offering high efficiency and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It leverages the abundant propane supply and significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods, PDH doesn't rely on depleting petroleum resources, ensuring sufficient propylene production to meet market needs.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, unlike multi-step processes. This results in lower energy consumption and higher yields, making PDH economically and environmentally viable. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, advantageous in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene highlights the importance of developing PDH technology, particularly in creating catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This addresses the endothermic nature of the reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and offering improved selectivity to propene. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, reduces coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements to ensure sustainability and transform propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap. It utilizes cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers an alternative to non-petroleum-based propylene, with significant industrial relevance. The scarcity of platinum and the toxicity of chromium in current commercial PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising alternative. Zinc-based catalysts, such as Zn@S-1, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential for an efficient and environmentally friendly PDH process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution to meet the global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. A key advantage is the development of a catalyst that achieves high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. This catalyst, encapsulating NPs within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, controls the size of ZnO NPs and prevents their loss at high temperatures. Demonstrating its effectiveness, the catalyst achieves a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, showcasing its high performance in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of ZnO-based catalysts further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cheap source of propane. Directly converting propane to propylene efficiently increases production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity, consuming less energy and narrowing the demand-supply gap of propene, making it an emerging and efficient technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH can utilize propane from various sources, including shale gas, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. It potentially offers higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative route that doesn't rely on traditional, feedstock-dependent processes. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and lower emissions compared to conventional methods. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH, utilizing propane from natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH's higher product selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, makes it a preferred choice for meeting the growing global demand for this key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional methods. Propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020, underscoring its critical role in industries. While alternatives like MTP and WGSR have been explored, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion from shale gas, reinforcing PDH's position as a leading solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include superior feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity compared to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds over CC bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, widely used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas resources offers a significant advantage over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH may offer enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The development of these catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a promising solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining attention for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands. Propylene, a critical chemical precursor, can now be produced more efficiently and selectively, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a key solution. Conventional methods face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt in catalysts, hindering industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer a promising alternative, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability. This addresses the urgent need for new catalysts and highlights PDH's potential in efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, which can be sourced from various petrochemical processes. It offers the benefit of easy retrofitting of existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by providing higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, ensures stable propylene production. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts, and is more cost-effective than traditional methods like steam cracking. This sustainable option addresses global demand for propylene by optimizing resource use and reducing complexity in production processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, bolstered by shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive due to high reaction temperatures, which affect selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates issues like cracking and deep dehydrogenation, enhancing its appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing propane from shale gas as a feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, addressing challenges of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, being cost-effective and non-toxic, are advantageous over Pt and Cr-based catalysts. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances both catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a viable and efficient method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, enhancing its economic viability. PDH's adjustable factories can run various reactions, making it highly profitable given the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability. It features high-efficiency ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, offering superior catalytic activity, stability, and selectivity, thus improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic reaction, endothermic nature, and thermodynamic equilibrium limitations are optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by increasing propane conversion through strategies like temperature increase and pressure reduction. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high conversion rates, and maintaining high propylene yield with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency. PDH specifically addresses these issues by utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, ensuring high selectivity to olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient route for propene production from propane, addressing conventional method limitations. It boasts higher selectivity, leading to increased yields and lower costs. PDH utilizes abundant propane from various sources, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. This direct method is more environmentally friendly, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane as feedstock. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves process efficiency with lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology (Quote 6). The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas provides a steady supply of propane, a key feedstock for PDH (Quote 4). PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective than high-pressure processes (Quote 1). However, catalyst deactivation and long-term stability are challenges (Quotes 2 and 3). PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production (Quote 7).", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies offer potential advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research into catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, aims to improve PDH technology, highlighting its promise in addressing the challenges of propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have spurred interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH, using the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, addresses conventional production challenges. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, unlike naphtha and heavy oil fractions used traditionally. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor design enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's energy efficiency and targeted conversion of propane to propylene result in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, addressing the challenges of conventional methods and meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH uses abundant propane from shale gas, converting low-value feedstock into high-value propylene. This makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH exhibits higher efficiency and selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, resulting in a cleaner, more targeted production process. This technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock plentiful and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, not hybrid products, enhances selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a leading solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has unlocked vast shale gas reserves, slashing gas costs and making shale gas a prime feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene output, driving up its price and bolstering the profitability of PDH, which is heavily influenced by the propane-propylene price differential. PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity olefins, specifically propylene, unlike mixed-product conventional methods. This technology optimally meets current market needs, capitalizing on favorable conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. It boasts high catalytic activity and selectivity, particularly with the CoSiBeta catalyst, which improves process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to tackle product selectivity and environmental concerns associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing key challenges. It leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The active Co species and surface acid property, tuned by Ti species, contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods in terms of process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Enhanced by the abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering single-feedstock simplicity and single-product efficiency, which enhances process effectiveness. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, addressing feedstock availability. PDH's competitive edge lies in lower production costs compared to traditional methods, making it a viable solution to meet growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but faces issues like coking and sintering due to its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its economic competitiveness, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH tackles decreasing fossil oil resources and growing propene demand by utilizing abundant propane, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity without the need for intermediate steps or risking decreased catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, offering an economical and direct conversion of propane to propylene. It addresses limitations of conventional methods by not relying on scarce petroleum resources. PDH is commercially viable, making it the shortest and most cost-effective route for propylene production. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under these conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production, marked by new plant constructions, highlights its efficiency and selectivity. However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt species have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent advancements have led to eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Conventional production methods, previously balanced by naphtha crackers, struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency, particularly with the rise of ethane and shale gas. PDH addresses these challenges, recognized as the most efficient process to meet large-scale propylene demand, ensuring adequate supply without compromising on product quality.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on depleting petroleum resources, making it an effective solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly naphtha. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. PDH's modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. This technology's high yields and lower operating costs make it a sustainable and cost-effective choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the challenges of conventional methods. It requires developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity due to the endothermic nature of the reaction, which necessitates high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses challenges in conventional propylene production by offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It can utilize renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation issues. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents coke but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, focusing on abundant elements to address scarcity. Research and development of lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and supply gap. It utilizes abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising route for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is investigated as an alternative due to the scarcity and toxicity of current catalyst components. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, demonstrating potential for industrial PDH process, highlighting its efficiency and selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Catalysts without non-noble metals achieve about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, showcasing PDH's efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the demand-supply gap of propene. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient and has emerged as a current technology, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially achieve higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method improves efficiency and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process limitations, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and superior product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes widely available propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly, addressing the limitations of high energy consumption and increased emissions in traditional processes. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts makes it an attractive solution for meeting the growing demand for this crucial chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking, which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, common catalyst deactivation issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability over oil-based sources. It utilizes vanadium oxide catalysts, which provide better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020, driving interest in PDH alongside MTP and WGSR. However, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced propane conversion, further promoting PDH's use.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene. This method offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional naphtha and heavy oil cracking. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting a key challenge in the technology's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained renewed interest due to the abundant shale gas supply, offering an advantage in feedstock availability for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to irreversible sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propylene production, especially due to growing demand. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propylene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its use of abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. Propylene, a key chemical in various industries, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demand. PDH offers a solution by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and the shale-gas-derived propane reserves highlight the importance of PDH technology. Current PDH processes, operating at high temperatures, face restrictions due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt catalysts. This drives the urgent need for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, with their promising performance and the earth's abundant Co supply, are seen as a viable long-term solution for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity. It offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, bypassing energy-intensive processes with lower propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, easily sourced from petrochemical processes, and can be implemented in existing facilities with minimal investment. It excels in higher propylene selectivity and efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to traditional methods, PDH is more sustainable and economically viable, with higher propylene yields and minimized byproduct formation, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, due to shale gas and increased natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing global demand and conventional method challenges. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, provide cost-effective and nontoxic alternatives, improving catalytic activity and stability. This technology specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for increasing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which are fossil fuel-dependent, CO2-emitting, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology, and its factories are adaptable for various reactions. This makes PDH highly profitable, given the price differential between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which enhance catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, gaining prominence in recent decades, offers significant advantages in propylene production. It's atom-economic, converting propane directly to propylene and H2, both high-value products (Quote 3). Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal outcomes (Quote 4). PDH's high energy consumption is offset by its potential to reduce costs through increased propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional production methods. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity toward olefins, particularly in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, and is environmentally friendly. Propane, abundant and versatile, ensures feedstock availability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane as feedstock, offering flexibility. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The process directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing unwanted byproduct formation. Lower operating temperatures and pressures result in reduced energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's high product selectivity and efficiency make it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective than high-pressure processes. However, challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and long-term stability. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. Commercial PDH processes, including Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and operation conditions, with Catofin operating at low pressure, Oleflex at 13 bar, and STAR at 56 bar. Efforts are ongoing to improve catalyst resistance to coke and protect active sites from aggregating, which are major causes of deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high Pt cost and Cr environmental impact, PDH technologies are being improved through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, which offer high stability and selectivity. This focus on developing advanced catalysts for PDH highlights ongoing efforts to address conventional production challenges and meet market demands.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, like Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, address conventional method challenges by utilizing available feedstock. However, the high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane—a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining—as a feedstock. This offers greater feedstock availability and stability compared to conventional methods using naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher propylene selectivity, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This makes PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, particularly from abundant shale gas resources. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly uses propane, addressing feedstock availability issues. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in regions with shale gas, meeting the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a leading solution, directly producing propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, making feedstock more affordable. PDH's exclusive propylene output and improved selectivity address conventional production limitations. With propylene demand projected to rise 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals and fuels. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, driving up its price and creating a favorable market for PDH. This technology, being on-purpose, exclusively yields propylene, optimized for polymer-quality purity, making it highly advantageous in the current market conditions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and affordable PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on environmental concerns and product selectivity, distinguishing it from conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances non-noble metal Co-based catalysts' performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. This addresses challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency, making PDH a promising method for propylene production, potentially offering advantages in feedstock availability over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With the abundance of cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH becomes a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    