Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene with high selectivity and lower costs than traditional methods. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply, making it ideal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production due to its high activity and yields. However, as an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, it faces challenges like coking and particle sintering, which limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting propane to propene with high selectivity. It leverages abundant propane to meet growing demand and improve efficiency, avoiding issues like hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that plague other methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propylene. As a non-petroleum-dependent route, it addresses limitations of conventional production methods. Despite being the most economical and commercially available, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions remains crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking and addresses feedstock limitations. Its importance in propylene production is growing, evident in new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and high costs. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, which show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to meet global propylene demand by improving feedstock availability and process efficiency. It excels in product selectivity, addressing the imbalance in ethylene and propylene production caused by the abundance of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, making it a superior method for targeted propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs compared to conventional methods. Non-noble metal catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, are crucial for PDH's progress, providing high activity, selectivity, and regeneration capabilities, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, efficiently meets escalating global propylene demand without depleting petroleum resources. This method ensures a sufficient supply, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a superior alternative in the petrochemical industry for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity, reduces energy consumption and byproducts. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. PDH offers lower operating costs, higher propylene yields, and greater sustainability, making it superior for meeting global demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, efficiently meets growing global propylene demand. It overcomes high temperature requirements of endothermic reactions, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a high spacetime yield for propylene production, utilizing green propane to enhance sustainability. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids coke formation, and ODH-O2 using boron shows promise with high activity and selectivity. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should focus on propene selectivity and low temperature CO2 activation, transforming propylene manufacturing with green propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen production, offering a cost-effective, eco-friendly solution to the propylene supply-demand gap, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative to conventional propylene production methods, addressing global demand by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc, as an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative, is promising, especially the Zn@S-1 catalyst, which demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making it a potential industrial PDH process solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, making it advantageous for propylene production. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating superior efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods, thereby addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as evidenced by benchmark testing under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process boosts efficiency and output. PDH's non-oxidative route enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods and bridging the gap between propylene demand and supply, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, boosts feedstock availability and process efficiency. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, maximizing shale gas resources, and enhancing product selectivity to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to feedstock-dependent methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike oil-based processes like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, PDH utilizes abundant propane from natural gas, reducing energy consumption and significantly lowering CO2 and NOx emissions. Its high selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, makes PDH an attractive choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods. By utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues like coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using vanadium oxide catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, particularly in shale gas-rich areas, offering better feedstock availability than oil-based methods. It demonstrates superior process efficiency and product selectivity, outshining traditional plants with Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 116 million ton global propylene demand in 2020, PDH emerges as the optimal production method, excelling in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, as noted in Quote 4, position PDH as the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, as mentioned in Quote 5, the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas further strengthens PDH's role in meeting the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its key advantages over traditional methods include enhanced feedstock availability, higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity, significantly reducing production costs due to a selective and durable catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enhances CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. It notably resolves Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and propylene selectivity issues, making it a superior solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, is a promising solution for increasing global propylene demand. Its high-temperature conversion ensures efficiency and selectivity, overcoming conventional method limitations. Advancements like stable, anti-sintering catalysts further boost PDH's potential for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in high selectivity and onstream stability, making it a viable alternative for propylene production where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. This directly addresses challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity, underscoring PDH's potential to surpass conventional methods' limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in meeting the global demand for propylene by offering efficient feedstock utilization and reduced by-product formation, surpassing conventional methods. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses challenges faced by conventional methods, including Cr toxicity and Pt cost, by offering a more viable long-term solution due to Co's earth abundance, thus fulfilling the industry's need for new catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and direct conversion from propane. It surpasses traditional methods by being more resource-efficient and eco-friendly, avoiding energy-intensive processes. This makes PDH advantageous in tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, positioning it as a key solution to the global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a prime solution for the escalating global demand for propylene. Its retrofitting capability in existing facilities adds to its attractiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high selectivity, achieving higher yields than traditional methods. Its streamlined production, energy efficiency, and reduced oil dependency make it a sustainable and economically viable solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It tackles limitations of conventional methods, despite high temperatures that can cause cracking and coking. PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing major challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and achieves high conversion rates and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, cost-effective and non-toxic, are enhanced with Ni to boost catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a superior method for efficient propylene production, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a targeted, efficient approach to propylene production, overcoming the limitations of conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. Leveraging cheap propane feedstocks from fracking, PDH specifically focuses on propylene, making it highly adaptable and profitable as the price gap between propylene and propane widens, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key advantage over conventional methods. Its use of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity and yield, significantly enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal conversion rates with optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion through strategies like temperature increase and pressure reduction of hydrocarbons and H2. This addresses conventional method limitations, ensuring high conversion rates and feedstock availability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. Leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH serves as an effective supplement, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits, making PDH a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers superior propylene production under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high yields with minimal byproducts. Pt catalysts boost selectivity, and PDH's direct conversion process minimizes unwanted byproducts, operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making it more efficient and environmentally friendly compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production offers key advantages, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas production, addressing feedstock availability. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues are being addressed through efforts to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH's advantages include addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, indium-based catalysts show potential for high stability and selectivity, improving PDH's effectiveness over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas propane reserves, offers Oleflex and Catofin processes to improve feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively addressing challenges in conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in direct propane-to-propylene conversion, boasting higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its streamlined single-reactor process reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution. Particularly in propane-rich regions, PDH efficiently tackles the global propylene demand, demonstrating its promise in addressing production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner approach to propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, boosts process efficiency, and improves product selectivity by directly converting propane with minimal by-products, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, leverages abundant shale gas condensates as feedstock, facilitated by hydraulic fracturing, ensuring cost-effectiveness and availability. Its selectivity in producing only propylene, without byproducts, enhances efficiency and product purity. With propylene demand forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH is pivotal in bridging the demand-supply gap.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The abundance of ethane has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price, favoring PDH's profitability. PDH benefits from the current propane-propylene price gap, which is advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield high-purity propylene, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology utilizes abundant propane for cost-effective propylene production, addressing feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst, with high activity and selectivity, boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike conventional catalysts that are costly, environmentally impactful, and quickly deactivate, PDH's green and low-priced catalyst maintains high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, overcoming product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently inhibits overoxidation, and exhibits high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, making it advantageous for meeting the global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity (>95%) and superior anti-coke stability, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity issues. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance performance, making PDH a viable solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity. It utilizes abundant, cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, offering a process that uses propane as the sole feedstock and produces propylene exclusively. This addresses the shortfall of traditional naphtha and coal-based methods, which struggle to meet market demand. The advent of unconventional gas sources, particularly shale gas, provides an ample and cost-effective supply of light alkanes. PDH's single feed/product nature, wide raw material source, and lower cost make it a highly effective and competitive solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses propylene demand by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, affecting C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, impacting propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts abundant propane to propene, directly addressing the growing demand and decreasing fossil oil resources. It boasts high selectivity, enhancing process efficiency by avoiding intermediate steps and side reactions, thus overcoming challenges in feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency as an alternative to depleting petroleum resources. It directly converts propane to propylene, the most economical and shortest route, commercially available through Catofin and Oleflex processes. Challenges include its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, impacting propylene selectivity and stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, addressing the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental and efficiency advantages in propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote 1) and increasing process efficiency (Quote 2). It addresses challenges of conventional methods, including health risks from CrOx catalysts and the high cost and deactivation of Pt-based catalysts. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts (Quote 7) enhance PDH's sustainability and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a specialized method for propylene production, addressing the imbalance caused by the shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking. As an on-purpose production method, PDH offers high efficiency and selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It specifically tackles the challenges of feedstock availability faced by conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, make PDH a high-efficiency, cost-effective solution, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to meet rising global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which are hindered by dwindling petroleum resources. By capitalizing on abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, PDH ensures superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a leading solution in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity through single-step conversion, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, excelling in high-temperature operations for optimal yields. Its reliance on endothermic reactions underscores the critical role of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, essential for efficient propane dehydrogenation, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, excels with high spacetime yield, addressing global propylene demand by leveraging renewable green propane. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, and ODH-O2, utilizing emerging boron-based catalysts, prevents overoxidation. ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, faces low propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, prioritize low temperature CO2 activation, and utilize more abundant elements. Green propane's dehydrogenation offers a sustainable route to propene, transforming its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas to meet global propylene demand, achieving high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, offering an eco-friendly and cost-efficient alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using earth-abundant and non-toxic Zn@S-1 catalyst, offers high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, addressing limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity and selectivity for large-scale propene output. It utilizes cost-efficient catalysts and an innovative nanoparticle encapsulation method, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods in feedstock use, efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, utilizing environmentally friendly ZnO-based catalysts. This innovation triples propene productivity while maintaining selectivity, outperforming conventional catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas resources, ensures a stable and cost-effective propane supply. It directly converts propane to propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gap issues of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil processing, efficiently and selectively converts propane to propylene, minimizing byproducts. This addresses feedstock availability issues and achieves higher yields, making PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a feedstock-independent route that boosts efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a superior alternative to conventional naphtha and crude oil-based methods. PDH, utilizing abundant propane, boosts feedstock availability, offers higher energy efficiency with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, and ensures greater selectivity for propylene production. This addresses the limitations of traditional processes, which are energy-intensive and struggle to meet the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, minimizing common catalyst deactivation issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, offers a competitive edge in propylene production. Its vanadium oxide catalysts ensure superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, boosting efficiency and product quality. These benefits, alongside low cost and toxicity, make PDH a leading method to tackle the global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods in feedstock use, process efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 116 million ton global propylene demand in 2020, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for production, offering high efficiency and environmental benefits. PDH's ability to convert abundant, low-valued propane from shale gas, enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It offers superior efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene, reducing costs and streamlining the process. A selective and durable catalyst further boosts efficiency and product quality, making PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has extended reactive longevity, and is eco-friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it superior for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges in the field.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing high-temperature conversion of propane, leverages abundant shale gas resources to meet global propylene demand, enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency. The technology's endothermic nature makes it advantageous, especially in light of increased shale gas exploration. However, the need for stable, anti-sintering catalysts to address coke deposition and improve efficiency is critical.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing global propylene demand more effectively than conventional methods like steam cracking. Its potential for enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity makes it a promising solution to traditional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional naphtha steam cracking methods that grapple with high fossil energy consumption and by-product minimization, making PDH a superior solution for meeting escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, notably with cobalt-based catalysts, excels in addressing the global demand for propylene by overcoming conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thanks to cobalt's abundance ensuring long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, converting propane directly with high selectivity and efficiency. It surpasses conventional methods by being less energy-intensive and yielding more propylene, making it ideal for meeting the increasing global demand for propylene while offering efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, easily integrating into existing facilities, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently converts it to propylene with high selectivity, ensuring stable supply and higher yields. It simplifies separation processes and offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale and natural gas-derived light alkanes, overcomes conventional propylene production limitations. Despite high energy demands and reaction temperatures that challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, the effective active site isolation strategy mitigates these issues, underscoring PDH's promise.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, addressing limitations in feedstock availability. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance activity and stability, improving process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH pivotal for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, recognized for its on-purpose production of propylene, directly addresses the low selectivity of conventional methods. The fracking revolution has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, abundantly available and cost-effective. PDH plants' adaptability enhances efficiency, and the technology's profitability is bolstered by the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane, making it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, achieving high propylene yield and stability. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results, minimizing by-products. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing single-pass propane conversion, reducing costs. Reaction conditions are critical, balancing conversion with unselective reactions, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as a supplement to traditional methods by leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits, making it a promising solution for propylene production. The unique selectivity to olefins and the ability to utilize alkanes from shale gas enhance feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity to propene for increased yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and economically advantageous alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and increased propane availability, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for propylene production. Its key advantages include feedstock flexibility, using propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds, and direct propane-to-propylene conversion minimizes unwanted byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and easier integration with current technology. Commercial PDH processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR operate under various pressures, enhancing efficiency. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, supported by affordable propane from shale gas, offers superior stability and selectivity through indium-based catalysts, directly tackling challenges in conventional propylene production. Ongoing research aims to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology stands out for propylene production. However, it faces challenges with costly Pt catalysts and toxic Cr catalysts, highlighting the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly into propylene, excels with higher selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and cuts costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective choice, especially in propane-rich regions, effectively addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, enhancing feedstock availability compared to conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It boasts superior process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving higher propane conversion and propylene yield with minimized by-products, making it a cleaner, more targeted production process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual rise in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, exclusively producing propylene with enhanced selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing ensures plentiful, cost-effective propane feedstock, addressing conventional method limitations. PDH's efficiency is pivotal for meeting market needs, offering a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a solution, leveraging advancements in fracking that slashed gas costs and favored shale gas as feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking reduced propylene supply, driving up its price. PDH's profitability, bolstered by the propane-propylene price gap, excels in current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields polymer-quality propylene, optimizing product purity and addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product quality compared to conventional methods. PDH focuses on developing a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene, addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages shale gas for abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, outshining conventional methods. It curbs overoxidation, boosting efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. With superior propylene selectivity, PDH trumps MTO and FTO processes, ensuring high-quality output.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers superior selectivity and efficiency in propylene production, making it a promising solution to meet escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently produces propylene with lower costs. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady and affordable supply. PDH's streamlined process, offering single feed and product, wide raw material sources, and cost-effectiveness, makes it superior to conventional methods in meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause catalyst issues like coking and sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive solution for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses resource constraints and demand growth by utilizing propane, avoiding catalyst activity reduction issues. PDH enhances process efficiency and feedstock availability, minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising route for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene as the most economical and shortest path. It addresses the challenges of dwindling petroleum resources and increasing propylene demand. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology, particularly improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods, and its importance grows with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have issues: CrOx catalysts pose health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a strategic solution, offering superior efficiency and selectivity. It directly addresses challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it the preferred method for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production with minimal by-products. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs compared to traditional plants. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is cost-effective against steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are ideal for PDH processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Rising propylene demand and declining oil reserves highlight PDH technology's significance, utilizing abundant propane and leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without depleting oil, overcoming conventional methods' limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, improves feedstock availability and reduces naphtha reliance. Its single-step process enhances efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. The modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. PDH's high propylene yields and lower operating costs make it economically and environmentally superior for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for meeting global propylene demand, utilizes high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity. Its endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields, directly addresses limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering high spacetime yield with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH addresses the limitations of conventional methods by utilizing renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but ODH-O2 can lead to overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 has lower propene yields. Boron-based catalysts in ODH-O2 show promise, but future PDH catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation and utilize more abundant catalytic elements. PDH's advancements could transform propylene manufacturing, leveraging green propane for a sustainable chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets rising propylene demand with high selectivity and sustainable production, closing the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the Zn@S-1 catalyst, excels in propylene production, offering high dehydrogenation activity and selectivity. Zinc's earth-abundance and non-toxicity make it a superior alternative to scarce and toxic components in conventional PDH catalysts, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering enhanced catalyst performance with high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively tackling conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as demonstrated under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a stable and cost-effective propane supply. It efficiently converts propane to propylene, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, unlike conventional methods which struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, directly addressing these challenges as an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a stable and abundant feedstock alternative to naphtha. It excels in efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene, particularly from shale gas, efficiently address the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a viable alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Its feedstock flexibility enhances efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently addresses the growing global demand for propylene, offering higher selectivity and efficiency than conventional methods reliant on scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, unlike traditional processes that yield varied hydrocarbons. Propane sourced from natural gas ensures better feedstock availability and sustainability, while PDH reduces CO2 and NOx emissions, making it an environmentally friendly alternative to high-energy-consuming processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering economic and environmental advantages over traditional naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues of coke formation and sintering that lead to catalyst deactivation in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, diminishes reliance on oil, and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, offering competitive performance and addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, excels in meeting the high global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component. Compared to MTP and WGSR, PDH offers superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, PDH leverages abundant propane, addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, improves feedstock availability and potentially reduces costs. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. A highly active and selective catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a viable solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, addressing global demand by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, enhancing reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively overcoming challenges faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It notably overcomes the short-term stability and selectivity issues of Pt-based catalysts, a key limitation of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas resources, offers a feedstock advantage for propylene production. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through stable Pt-based catalysts that resist degradation, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand and overcome conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in propene production from propane with high selectivity and onstream stability, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking, which struggle with growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-product generation, offers a solution to conventional propylene production methods' inefficiencies. Its efficiency and selectivity make PDH a promising alternative, crucial for essential chemical production and addressing fossil energy consumption challenges faced by traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Cobalt-based catalysts, explored to overcome hurdles like Cr toxicity and Pt high cost, suggest a viable and sustainable long-term PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steps. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, overcoming conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cost-effective propane, boosts process efficiency and propylene selectivity, overcoming conventional method challenges. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities addresses growing global demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers superior propylene production efficiency and selectivity, ensuring a stable supply with reduced byproducts. It's notably more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, directly tackling the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, overcomes feedstock constraints faced by traditional propylene production. Despite its energy demands, PDH's selectivity and catalyst stability issues are addressed by the active site isolation strategy, positioning it as a viable solution for escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, excels in high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content boost activity and stability, overcoming conventional method limitations. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a superior alternative for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, tackling conventional methods' fossil fuel dependence, CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. By specifically targeting propylene, PDH avoids mixed hydrocarbon products. Leveraging fracking, PDH utilizes inexpensive propane-rich shale gas as feedstock. PDH's adaptability and the favorable price gap between propylene and propane, alongside the expanding propylene market, ensure its high profitability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite thermodynamic equilibrium limitations, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing single-pass propane conversion through adjusting reaction temperature and pressures, highlighting its advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes, PDH specifically tackles issues faced by conventional production methods, making it advantageous in meeting the growing global demand for propylene. The unique property of PDH processes is their exclusive selectivity to olefins, making them a viable solution in the context of increasing global demands for olefins and the exploitation of shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, offers high propylene yields at milder conditions than steam cracking, minimizing byproducts. Its Pt-based catalysts ensure high selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low CC cleavage activity, improving efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures. This reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, with higher product selectivity minimizing unwanted byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment costs, and easier integration with existing technology. PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, operate under varying pressures, with atmospheric pressure enhancing efficiency. Catalyst deactivation remains a challenge, but PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective process for propylene. This makes PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Indium-based catalysts, noted for their high stability and selectivity, address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research explores various catalysts to further enhance PDH technology, including materials like Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based substances, and nanocarbon catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "With global propylene demand on the rise and abundant propane from shale gas, PDH technology stands out for its feedstock availability and process efficiency, addressing the shortcomings of conventional production methods. Commercial processes such as Oleflex and Catofin are pivotal in overcoming traditional challenges, offering a viable solution to the growing need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offering a feedstock advantage over conventional methods that use scarce naphtha and heavy oil. Its energy efficiency, higher product selectivity, and single-reactor process simplify production and reduce costs, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts abundant shale gas-derived propane into propylene, offering a cleaner, more targeted, and cost-effective process compared to conventional methods. By directly converting propane with minimal by-products, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical. It leverages the abundance of propane from shale gas condensates, made possible by hydraulic fracturing, ensuring a plentiful and cost-effective feedstock. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without byproducts, enhances efficiency and selectivity, crucial for addressing the forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging advanced hydraulic fracturing (Quote 2) to reduce gas costs (Quote 3) and utilize shale gas as feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, driving up its price (Quote 5). PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current price differential between propane and propylene. As an on-purpose technique (Quote 7), PDH yields specific olefins with polymer-quality purity, offering an advantage over conventional methods in terms of product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers significant advantages over conventional methods in propylene production. CoSiBeta catalysts in PDH enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming traditional techniques. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly and environmentally impactful, PDH's green and affordable catalysts address product selectivity and environmental challenges, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane, inhibits overoxidation for superior efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity, directly addressing conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration, addressing conventional methods' limitations. The catalyst's optimized active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane, thus addressing conventional methods' limitations and making it a superior choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane as a single feedstock, efficiently meets the growing global demand for propylene. It exploits abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's focus on a single product and lower production costs make it a competitive alternative, addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a viable solution for increasing global propylene production. It boasts high activity and yields, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process that requires high temperatures, PDH remains advantageous due to its high propylene production efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired side reactions, thus avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, and maintaining catalyst activity and stability, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical, and efficient method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand as a key petrochemical (quote [1]). It offers a petroleum-independent route, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex (quote [3]). However, high temperatures required for catalytic activity lead to side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability (quote [6]), highlighting the need for improved catalysts under severe conditions.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods and is gaining importance in propylene production. However, conventional PDH catalysts have health risks and deactivation issues, and re-dispersing platinum catalysts with chlorine compounds is a concern. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, excelling in product selectivity and addressing conventional production challenges, notably feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it efficient in meeting high global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene. Its modular design ensures flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Enhanced by vanadium-based catalysts, PDH boasts superior efficiency, making it a leading alternative to conventional propylene production methods, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively meets the growing global demand for propylene. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, by offering improved efficiency and selectivity in production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It enhances stability, reduces naphtha reliance, and boasts high efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular design enables flexible, localized production, making PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its emphasis on high-performance catalysts, effectively meets the rising global demand for propylene. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by boosting process efficiency and product selectivity, crucial for achieving high yields at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing feedstock sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, and unlike oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2), which risks overoxidation, PDH maintains high selectivity. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high selectivity and activity, while CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas's abundant propane, efficiently bridges the propylene supply-demand gap. It excels with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts and notably zinc as a non-toxic, earth-abundant alternative, offers a non-petroleum route for propylene production, addressing global demand more efficiently and selectively than conventional methods. Zn-4@S-1 demonstrates this with a propylene STY of 24 and 97% selectivity at 853 K, highlighting PDH's superiority in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior solution for propylene production, boasting 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, which surpasses conventional methods in efficiency and selectivity. Its use of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts without non-noble metals ensures high propene yields and stability at high temperatures, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's efficiency, achieving three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as demonstrated in industrial testing.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective propane supply, directly converting propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods. Its non-oxidative process enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps, making it a leading propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it sustainable and cost-effective, particularly when utilizing shale gas. PDH potentially yields higher propylene selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to conventional processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers superior efficiency and reduced CO2/NOx emissions compared to conventional oil-dependent methods. PDH ensures better feedstock availability, sourcing propane from natural gas, and boasts high product selectivity for propylene with minimal byproducts, directly addressing the need for more sustainable processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering superior advantages over conventional, energy-intensive, and CO2-emitting methods. By utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with enhanced selectivity and stability, effectively mitigating coke formation and sintering, common issues in traditional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane and vanadium oxide catalysts, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity. It offers superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, making it a cost-effective, less toxic alternative to conventional methods, well-suited to meet escalating global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock use, efficiency, and selectivity. With a 2020 demand of 116 million tons, propylene is vital for industrial applications. PDH is preferred over MTP and WGSR for its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages, making it ideal for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing enhance propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in utilizing this abundant resource.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, presents a more direct and efficient propylene production method, potentially lowering costs. Its key benefits include enhanced product selectivity and process efficiency, further optimized by advanced PDH catalysts, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts significantly boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional methods. This technology also offers environmental benefits and improved catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for growing propylene demand. Despite Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and selectivity issues, PDH remains advantageous over conventional methods, as highlighted by industry insights.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high temperatures for propane conversion, leverages abundant shale gas resources, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its reliance on stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion highlights process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a direct and efficient method for propylene production, addressing growing global demand. It offers high selectivity and onstream stability, surpassing steam cracking's limitations, making it a promising alternative for propene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution for propylene production, addressing global demand and fossil energy concerns. It excels with abundant feedstock, fewer by-products, and high efficiency, directly countering the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH's selectivity in producing propylene, a vital chemical precursor, makes it a standout choice.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to meet growing global propylene demand, offering a sustainable alternative to conventional methods. Using earth-abundant cobalt-based catalysts, PDH ensures long-term industry growth, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane directly to propylene addresses global demand challenges. It offers enhanced efficiency and lower environmental impact by avoiding energy-intensive processes, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, easily integrating into existing facilities, addressing global demand challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It's more sustainable and economically viable than traditional methods, with higher propylene yields and reduced byproduct formation, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to light alkanes from shale and natural gas, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite high temperatures leading to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key challenges. [2] The change in feedstock has spurred the development of PDH technologies. [5] Active site isolation has been proven effective in tackling the challenges of high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, achieves high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, efficiently addressing global demand. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness and stability, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, directly targeting propylene without byproducts, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. Enhanced by fracking, which provides cheap propane feedstocks, PDH's adaptable factories boost profitability, aligning with the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, ensures feedstock availability, a critical factor in meeting global propylene demand. Its employment of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results with optimized catalysts and conditions despite high energy consumption. By increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures, PDH enhances single-pass conversion, reducing costs and improving efficiency. Suitable conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with minimal by-product formation, thus enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods. It serves as an effective supplement, leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation. PDH's high selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high olefin selectivity, especially in PDH, due to propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propene selectivity than conventional methods, enhancing efficiency and reducing production costs, making it a sustainable solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases, enhancing feedstock flexibility. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, improving efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts enable high propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproduct formation, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR employ distinct catalysts, with Catofin's atmospheric pressure operation enhancing energy efficiency. Catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH outperforms oxidative dehydrogenation by avoiding deep oxidation and COx production, ensuring a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using indium-based catalysts, is favored for meeting growing global propylene demand due to its high stability and selectivity. It leverages low-cost shale gas-derived propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, featuring Oleflex and Catofin with PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, is a promising solution. It addresses conventional method limitations by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, with a focus on developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts to overcome challenges like high Pt cost and environmental issues with Cr.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to directly convert abundant propane into propylene, offering enhanced energy efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. By simplifying the process in a single reactor, PDH reduces costs, making it particularly suitable for regions with ample propane, addressing global demand sustainably and cost-effectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology converts low-value propane into high-value propylene using abundant shale gas, offering higher efficiency and selectivity than traditional methods. PDH's targeted process results in cleaner production, meeting demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, offers enhanced selectivity by exclusively yielding propylene, addressing the challenge of product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing, as mentioned in quote 2, increases propane availability, making feedstock more economical and addressing the challenge of feedstock availability. With a forecasted 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency and selectivity, as highlighted in quote 3, are crucial for meeting global needs and addressing the challenge of process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced fracking technology has significantly increased shale gas extraction, reducing gas costs and favoring its use as feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, driving up its price and enhancing PDH's profitability, which is heavily influenced by the propane-propylene price gap. PDH selectively produces high-purity olefins, unlike conventional methods that yield mixed products, effectively addressing product selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, enhances availability and addresses conventional method limitations. Its CoSiBeta catalyst boosts catalytic activity and selectivity, improving efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods. Green, cost-effective PDH catalysts are needed to tackle product selectivity and environmental challenges directly.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for superior efficiency over ODH, and exhibits high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts high propylene selectivity and good regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency. Its active Co species and surface acid property provide anti-coke stability, making PDH superior to conventional methods in tackling feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane, offers high propylene selectivity, making it superior for meeting escalating global demand compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant unconventional gas sources, efficiently produces propylene as a single product. Its cost-effectiveness and focus on a single feedstock make it a competitive solution, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a targeted solution for propylene production, overcoming conventional challenges. Despite its endothermic nature and high-temperature operation, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause issues like coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by optimizing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. By utilizing propane as a feedstock, PDH improves efficiency and selectivity, bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical, and commercially viable method for propylene production, addressing growing global demand and the depletion of petroleum resources. As a key petrochemical building block, propylene's production through PDH offers a shorter route compared to conventional methods. However, the process's high-temperature requirement leads to challenges such as low propylene selectivity and catalyst instability, impacting industrial-scale production efficiency. Despite these challenges, PDH remains the most promising technology due to its direct conversion of propane to propylene and commercial availability through processes like Catofin and Oleflex.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. Challenges with conventional catalysts, such as health risks from CrOx and cost and deactivation issues with Pt-based catalysts, have led to the development of eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts. These new catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes, addressing the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, praised for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, directly tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers cost-effective feedstock, excels in process efficiency and selectivity for propylene, and allows modular implementation for flexible capacity and reduced capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative for propylene production, overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in propylene production, capitalizing on abundant propane and the economic incentive of the propane-propylene price gap. It ensures propylene supply independent of dwindling oil reserves, effectively tackling the global demand surge.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, reducing reliance on costly naphtha, and excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints. PDH offers high yields and lower operating costs, making it a more economically and environmentally sound choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using high-performance catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, efficiently addresses global propylene demand by achieving high yields at high temperatures, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It surpasses steam cracking and MTO in atom economy, toxicity, and sustainability, aligning with the growing demand for sustainable chemical production. PDH's use of renewable green propane and avoidance of coke formation improves process efficiency and environmental impact. Further research on catalyst design, focusing on improving selectivity and low temperature CO2 activation, is essential for PDH's commercial viability and its potential to transform the manufacturing landscape of propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently bridges the propylene supply-demand gap. It excels in high propylene selectivity, producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product, offering an eco-friendly, cost-efficient solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. Notably, the development of alternative catalysts, such as Zn@S-1, demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, exceptional propylene selectivity (97% at 853 K), and regeneration capability, underscoring its promise for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene production efficiency with 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, using eco-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. This highlights its advantages over conventional methods in feedstock efficiency, process, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, matching selectivity under industrial conditions, highlighting PDH's superiority over conventional methods in addressing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable, cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, addressing limitations in process efficiency and product selectivity. The non-oxidative PDH route is an emerging solution, specifically tackling the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly when using shale gas. PDH potentially yields more propylene than traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting propane to propylene, offers an alternative to traditional methods, enhancing feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand highlights PDH technology's advantages, utilizing abundant propane feedstock for enhanced efficiency and reduced CO2/NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. PDH improves feedstock availability, offers higher propylene selectivity, and is a sustainable solution for meeting growing needs, as highlighted by its application in producing downstream products like polypropylene and propylene oxide.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outshining traditional naphtha cracking by consuming less energy and emitting fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces oil dependency for propylene production. Its vanadium oxide catalysts excel in reactivity, selectivity, and stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering optimized feedstock use, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It's a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for producing high-value propylene, further enhanced by shale gas extraction advancements that improve propane conversion.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock, directly produces propylene, addressing growing demand more efficiently and selectively than traditional methods like steam cracking. Its benefits include lower costs from shale gas, a more direct process, and selective catalyst development, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, excelling in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental impact. Pt-based catalysts notably enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively overcoming conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by addressing Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, effectively meets growing global propylene demand, showcasing its efficiency and selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, overcomes feedstock limitations. Its high-temperature process, essential for propane conversion, uses platinum-based catalysts. Efforts to enhance efficiency through anti-sintering catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion underscore PDH's superiority. PDH's shale gas utilization for propylene production makes it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high onstream stability and selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing high costs and toxicity issues of current methods. This makes PDH a promising route for efficient and selective propylene production, meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products, making it a superior solution for escalating global propylene demand, unlike conventional methods which grapple with fossil energy consumption and selectivity issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology stands out, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant on earth, ensure PDH's long-term sustainability, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, offering efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact by bypassing energy-intensive processes, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cost-effective propane and butane, enhances process efficiency and selectivity, making it superior for meeting rising global propylene demand. Its ability to retrofit existing facilities minimizes investment, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations. It ensures a stable supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it sustainable and economically viable. PDH's energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity streamline production, reducing oil-based feedstock dependency and enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to abundant light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas, enhances propylene production. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high temperatures causing cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these challenges, boosting alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by industry practices.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective solution for propylene production, addressing global demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. It outperforms conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The Ni-modified ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite catalyst boosts PDH's catalytic activity and stability, key to its superiority over traditional Pt and Cr-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process that specifically yields propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The fracking technology's advent has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, abundantly available and affordable, enhancing PDH's economic appeal. PDH's profitability, driven by the growing propylene market and the price gap between propylene and propane, makes it a compelling solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in feedstock availability. It features ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, showcasing high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, thus outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion, despite thermodynamic limitations. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion through increased temperature and reduced pressures, aligning with equilibrium conversion trends. Suitable conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring efficient and selective propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. The technology's selectivity to olefins and its ability to operate within specific temperature ranges enhance product yield and reduce by-product formation, making it a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. It directly tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology utilizes abundant propane to produce propylene under milder conditions, directly converting propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, reducing byproducts. This process may lower greenhouse gas emissions, addressing global demand sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas, simplifying reactant and product distribution, reducing investment, and integrating smoothly with existing technology. It operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, but ongoing efforts aim to improve stability. Commercial PDH processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use distinct catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at atmospheric pressure. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and thermodynamically stable by-products, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by growing propylene demand and low-cost propane, offers high stability and selectivity, especially with indium-based catalysts, addressing limitations of traditional propylene production methods. Ongoing research into diverse catalysts, including nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of precious metals and environmental concerns limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies production, reducing costs and making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, especially in regions with abundant propane. This addresses growing global demand for propylene and feedstock availability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production. It boosts efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with fewer by-products, effectively addressing global demand and environmental concerns.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, offers key advantages over conventional methods by exclusively producing propylene, enhancing selectivity, and utilizing plentiful, cost-effective propane feedstock from hydraulic fracturing. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene, forecasted to increase by 2-3% annually by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand spotlights PDH technology, which overcomes challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, driving up prices and highlighting PDH's potential. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current favorable propane-propylene price gap. Crucially, PDH's on-purpose nature yields high-purity propylene, unlike the mixed-product output of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Developing a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst aims to further enhance selectivity and reduce environmental impact, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, thus addressing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration in recycling reactions, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species and surface acid property are key to achieving high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, addresses conventional method challenges. Enhanced by abundant, lower-cost propane sources, PDH is cost-effective and efficient, meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, harnesses abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources for a steady, cost-effective propylene supply, offering higher efficiency and lower production costs than traditional methods, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a targeted propylene production method, meets global demand with high yields but faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that limit selectivity and cause coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by optimizing properties affecting propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing the decline in fossil oil resources and growing market demand. By directly converting propane to propene, PDH bypasses hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Utilizing an abundant and cheaper feedstock, PDH is a promising method to meet the global demand for propylene production, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propane-to-propylene converter, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering an economical and shortest production route, as highlighted in quote [3]. It serves as an alternative to conventional methods that face limitations due to reliance on scarce petroleum resources, as noted in quote [2]. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, PDH remains promising. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions, as mentioned in quote [6], is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking in propylene production, with its role expanding due to new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and high costs. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and Ru or Rh NP, have shown high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in meeting global propylene demand, offering superior feedstock flexibility and process efficiency. As the most efficient process, PDH ensures product selectivity, overcoming challenges from ethylene supply disruptions, making it a pivotal method in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, boasts high propane-to-propylene conversion with reduced by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs. Vanadium-based catalysts improve activity, selectivity, and regeneration, making PDH a cost-effective, efficient alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane and exploits the price disparity between propane and propylene, ensuring sufficient propylene supply. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with depleting petroleum resources, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a cost-effective and sustainable solution for global propylene demand. Its single-step conversion boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. The modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for areas lacking infrastructure. PDH's high yields and reduced reliance on expensive naphtha make it a prime solution for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-temperature operation for high yields in endothermic reactions, is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand. Developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts for PDH specifically addresses limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields and addresses the propylene gap by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, with boron catalysts, limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation, prioritizing abundant elements, aligning with green chemistry principles to sustainably transform propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and hydrogen by-product, effectively tackling global demand and outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts like Zn@S-1, offers a flexible and efficient alternative to traditional propylene production methods. Zn@S-1 exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability, achieving exceptional propylene selectivity. This highlights PDH's superiority in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability with cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts. Notably, PDH catalysts at 600C demonstrate superior efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a leading alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener propylene production method, avoiding toxic compounds and ecologically harmful substances. A novel ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's environmental compatibility, demonstrating triple the propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a standard KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under relevant conditions, making PDH a promising alternative to oil-based cracking processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production, directly addressing the supply-demand gap. Its efficient, direct conversion process minimizes energy consumption, outperforming conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route makes it an emerging and efficient technology in today's propylene production landscape, specifically tackling the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers a stable feedstock alternative to naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, maximizing shale gas resources. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene make it superior to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for efficient propylene production, offering an alternative route that doesn't rely on traditional feedstock-dependent methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a viable option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior efficiency, environmental benefits, and improved feedstock availability. By directly converting abundant propane to propylene, PDH reduces oil reliance, energy use, and CO2/NOx emissions, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. This direct process enhances product selectivity and curbs byproducts, making PDH ideal for meeting the surging demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, excelling over conventional methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in traditional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, mitigates oil dependency and employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a game-changer in meeting the high global demand for propylene, which hit 116 million tons in 2020. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it superior to conventional methods for producing high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further optimized PDH by increasing propane conversion from shale gas, tackling feedstock availability issues.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene with enhanced efficiency and selectivity, addressing feedstock availability and lowering costs. Developing superior catalysts could further boost process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in meeting global propylene demand, excelling in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It achieves efficient CH bond activation, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, yet it faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit short-term stability issues and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, meets growing propylene demand through an endothermic process. It faces catalyst deactivation challenges, necessitating advanced Pt-based catalysts for cyclic coke combustion. PDH's shale gas compatibility ensures feedstock availability, making it a promising method for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high selectivity and good stability, improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. This makes PDH suitable for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations like high costs and toxicity of other catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its ability to leverage abundant feedstock and minimize by-products, addressing the inefficiencies and limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH's advantages make it a promising solution for meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a solution, addressing conventional method limitations like toxicity and cost associated with traditional catalysts, enhancing propylene production efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting global propylene demand, offering high selectivity in converting propane to propylene while bypassing energy-intensive processes. It excels in resource use and reduces environmental impact, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, boosts propylene selectivity and process efficiency, integrating smoothly into current facilities, making it a viable solution to address the escalating global demand for propylene and the constraints of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring a stable supply, reducing energy consumption, and minimizing byproducts, thus addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite high energy demands and temperatures leading to selectivity issues and catalyst instability, the isolation of active sites effectively mitigates side reactions, optimizing PDH's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, meets global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, boost catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising industrial raw material production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without hybrid hydrocarbons. It surpasses conventional methods by reducing reliance on fossil fuels, lowering CO2 emissions, and increasing propylene selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the propylene-propane price difference and growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and boosts efficiency with ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, enhancing propylene selectivity and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized conditions and catalysts. As a high energy-consuming process, PDH benefits from increased propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, thus meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective supplement to conventional SC and FCC methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways such as MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits. The use of appropriate catalysts is crucial for achieving high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering the lower stability of propylene relative to ethylene. This makes PDH a promising method for propylene production, specifically addressing limitations in feedstock availability and efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propene selectivity than conventional methods, resulting in increased yields and reduced costs. This sustainable and efficient solution directly addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising approach to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, achieves high propylene yields under milder conditions than steam cracking. Its Pt-based catalysts ensure high selectivity, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and reducing energy needs, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment, and seamless integration with existing technology. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to conventional methods. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, improving process efficiency. The process avoids deep oxidation and COx production, increasing selectivity for propylene. Challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, necessitating ongoing research. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and operation conditions, highlighting the diversity in addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies for propylene production is driven by global demand and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, notably with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing research into diverse catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH technology's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and ample propane reserves, PDH technology has become a promising production method. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in its catalysts pose significant challenges, highlighting the need for more economical and eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, addressing challenges of conventional methods. By focusing on propane conversion, PDH achieves higher yields and potentially lower costs, making it a sustainable solution for growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting abundant shale gas-derived propane directly into propylene with minimal by-products, addresses feedstock availability and enhances process efficiency and product selectivity. Its sustainability and cost-effectiveness in shale gas-rich regions make it a superior alternative to conventional naphtha or oil cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for direct propylene production, addresses the growing global demand by offering enhanced selectivity and efficiency. It leverages abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, thanks to advancements in hydraulic fracturing. PDH's exclusive propylene output and optimized process conditions inhibit side reactions, improving selectivity and productivity, making it a promising solution to meet future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a solution, leveraging the price gap between propane and propylene for profitability. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals and shifting U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane. This shift has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, not a mix, and processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity, directly addressing conventional method challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. This catalyst's high activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike conventional catalysts, PDH offers superior product selectivity and environmental benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts superior propylene selectivity, directly addressing global demand challenges for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. Its enhanced performance and anti-coke stability make PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology outperforms conventional methods in propylene production, boasting high selectivity and leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from the shale gas and natural gas hydrate boom, making it ideal for meeting escalating global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as the sole feedstock, efficiently produces propylene as the single product, addressing the limitations of traditional methods that relied on naphtha and coal. Its advantages, including a wide source of raw materials from unconventional gas like shale, ensure cost-effectiveness and a steady supply, making it a competitive solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses conventional propylene production challenges by improving efficiency and selectivity. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can limit selectivity and affect catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, optimizing PDH's performance.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene, addressing challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It directly converts propane with high selectivity, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, thus enhancing feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a commercially viable and economical solution, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering an alternative to conventional methods. As a direct conversion from propane, PDH reduces dependency on dwindling petroleum resources. However, high temperatures required for the process can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Enhancing catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental and efficiency advantages over oil-based cracking in propylene production. Its role is expanding with new plants. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have health risks and deactivation issues. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, have been developed for enhanced propane dehydrogenation activity, addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, excelling in efficiency and product selectivity. As an on-purpose method, PDH directly addresses current demand and feedstock issues, making it superior to conventional methods in terms of process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly in the context of disrupted ethylene and propylene production balance due to natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency, selectivity, and conversion rates, minimizing by-products. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for activity, selectivity, and regeneration, address the need for non-noble metal catalysts, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the limitations of traditional propylene production methods. It ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a sustainable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, ensures stable feedstock and superior efficiency over naphtha. It directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity and minimal byproducts, using less energy. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, offering a sustainable, cost-effective solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting rising global propylene demand, offering key advantages over conventional methods. Its superiority is highlighted by the use of advanced catalysts, which exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for achieving high yields in the propane dehydrogenation process. This addresses the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yield through Pt or Cr-based catalysts and utilizing renewable green propane for sustainability. Unlike DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, minimizing regeneration needs. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise with high selectivity but faces overoxidation challenges. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and focus on CO2 activation at lower temperatures. Research and development of PDH using green propane could revolutionize propylene manufacturing, addressing the growing global demand and the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, ensures high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, efficiently and eco-friendly, surpassing conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations. Zinc, as a non-toxic and abundant alternative, supports PDH's advantages. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit high dehydrogenation activity and 97% propylene selectivity, underscoring PDH's superiority in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable option for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Notably, catalysts without non-noble metals achieve about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional catalyst regeneration. ZnO-based catalysts in PDH technology demonstrate three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. Its direct conversion process boosts efficiency and selectivity, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps of conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in the propylene sector, directly converting propane to propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a more abundant and stable feedstock than naphtha. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it sustainable and cost-effective, particularly when utilizing shale gas. PDH provides higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, addresses the global propylene demand more efficiently than conventional methods that rely on scarce naphtha and crude oil. It offers higher propylene selectivity, lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and is a sustainable alternative, improving feedstock availability and reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. It excels in propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity and stability, notably reducing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, common in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing vanadium oxide catalysts, excels in feedstock flexibility by tapping into abundant shale gas resources, reducing oil dependency. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, offering superior reactivity, stability, and competitive performance at a lower cost and toxicity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a cost-effective and environmentally sound solution, surpassing methods like MTP and WGSR. PDH's ability to convert abundant low-valued propane from shale gas, facilitated by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, makes it a promising pathway for high-value propylene production, addressing the 116 million tons demand in 2020.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas feedstock, directly produces propylene with enhanced efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods by potentially lowering costs and simplifying the process, making it a promising solution for meeting the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its efficient CH bond activation and longer reactive longevity, offers environmental benefits and enhanced propylene selectivity through Pt-based catalysts, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand, overcoming conventional method limitations, notably the poor stability and selectivity of Pt-based catalysts, by offering enhanced performance and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using platinum-based catalysts in an endothermic process, leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to meet global propylene demand. Efforts to develop anti-sintering catalysts enhance process efficiency, underscoring PDH's promise in overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers superior efficiency and selectivity, making it a preferred method for propylene production when demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. This innovation tackles high costs and toxicity, underscoring PDH's role in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock to enhance efficiency and selectivity, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with the escalating demand for propylene, a critical chemical component.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand. It overcomes conventional method limitations, like toxicity and high costs, by leveraging cobalt's earth abundance, enhancing propylene production potential.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, converting propane directly with high selectivity, unlike energy-intensive conventional methods. It offers superior efficiency and a smaller environmental footprint, making it ideal for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cost-effective propane and butane, overcomes feedstock availability issues and can be integrated into existing facilities, reducing investment. Its superior propylene selectivity and efficiency make it a viable solution for the increasing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, ensuring stable supply and minimized byproducts. It's economically viable and more energy-efficient than oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundance of light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas to boost propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite challenges with high temperatures and potential cracking, the active site isolation strategy, as in Quote 5, effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, ensures feedstock availability, enhances process efficiency, and improves product selectivity, making it pivotal for meeting escalating global propylene demand by addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a targeted process unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-reliant, CO2-emitting, and less selective for propylene. PDH benefits from inexpensive feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology yielding propane-rich shale gas, making it highly profitable due to the price gap between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, ensures propylene production's feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 in PDH processes exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, enhancing efficiency and yield, thus addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized conditions and suitable catalysts. This addresses conventional method limitations by ensuring feedstock availability and high conversion rates, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical supplement to conventional propylene production, addressing the escalating global demand for olefins by leveraging abundant shale gas. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, distinguishing it from pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. PDH's thermodynamic properties and ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for the industry.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing feedstock availability challenges. It offers higher propene selectivity, resulting in increased yields and reduced costs compared to conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, yielding high propylene output with reduced byproducts. Its direct propane conversion minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially decreases greenhouse gas emissions, offering superior product selectivity and addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and compatibility with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural and shale gas production ensures a steady feedstock supply. PDH operates without oxidants, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, using specific catalysts and pressures, highlight PDH's advantages. Ongoing research addresses catalyst deactivation and stability issues, critical for long-term operation.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods by enhancing efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for optimizing feedstock utilization, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity, effectively addressing limitations of conventional methods. However, the quest for cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical development area.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a more energy-efficient and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and a simplified process, making it a sustainable choice to meet the growing global demand. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, converting abundant shale gas propane directly into propylene with high efficiency. It boasts higher propane conversion and propylene selectivity, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, making it a cleaner and more targeted process compared to conventional methods. This technology is particularly advantageous in regions rich in shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amid a projected 2-3% annual rise in global propylene demand to 2035, PDH technology emerges as a solution, directly producing propylene without byproducts. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, PDH leverages abundant shale gas condensates, boosting efficiency and selectivity. This method, exclusively producing propylene, is well-positioned to meet escalating demand with high selectivity and productivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, except in the Eurozone, cost-effective shale gas extraction has shifted U.S. feedstock preference from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price. PDH technology, profitable due to the propane-propylene price difference, offers exclusive polymer-quality olefins, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, addresses global propylene demand with high efficiency and selectivity. Advanced catalysts, exemplified by CoSiBeta, ensure cost-effective, green processes with sustained high reactivity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity, outperforming MTO and FTO processes by avoiding overoxidation and offering superior product purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, effectively tackling product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Its active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH more efficient in utilizing feedstocks than conventional methods, thus addressing the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene production. This directly addresses the limitations of conventional methods, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    