Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior solution for propylene production, addressing the shortfall of traditional naphtha and coal cracking methods in meeting high demand. By utilizing propane as the sole feedstock and producing propylene exclusively, PDH leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring cost-effectiveness and efficiency. This streamlined process offers a wide source of raw materials and low costs, making PDH a competitive choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields but faces challenges due to its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures, leading to reduced C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability. Nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance efficiency and selectivity, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene, addressing challenges in propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It directly converts propane with high selectivity, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial petrochemical for various products. It directly converts propane to propylene, addressing the limitations of conventional methods struggling with dwindling petroleum resources. Despite being endothermic and prone to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, PDH offers a shorter and more economical route to propylene production. The challenge remains in developing catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions to enhance PDH's efficiency in industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, addresses feedstock limitations and environmental concerns compared to oil-based cracking. Its contribution to propylene production is increasing with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, like CrOx and Pt-based, pose health risks and are costly with deactivation issues. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, which show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst challenges effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently addresses the growing global demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and selectivity. It optimally utilizes available feedstocks, resolving the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production. Recognized for its high propylene output, PDH emerges as a viable alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and reduces capital costs, making it a cost-effective solution compared to traditional steam cracking methods. As a non-oxidative process, PDH's advantages are increasingly recognized, particularly in the context of growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, overcomes conventional propylene production challenges. It ensures a steady supply without relying on depleting petroleum resources, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. Its single-step conversion process enhances efficiency and selectivity, reducing byproducts and energy consumption. PDH's modular design enables flexible, localized production, making it suitable for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, effectively addressing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high activity, stability, and selectivity in catalysts enable high yields at high temperatures, addressing global propylene demand. This efficiency and selectivity in the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction make PDH a promising method, overcoming conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts, which circumvent coke formation, a hurdle for conventional methods. Leveraging renewable green propane, PDH aligns with sustainability goals. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, mitigates overoxidation, boosting propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, necessitates improved catalysts for higher propene yields. Future catalyst design should concentrate on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation, employing abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy routes to propene via green propane dehydrogenation could transform the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand. It boasts high propylene selectivity and yields valuable hydrogen, offering a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative to conventional methods, thus narrowing the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the Zn@S-1 catalyst, effectively addresses global propylene demand by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc, as a non-toxic and earth-abundant metal, offers an environmentally friendly alternative for PDH catalysts, overcoming the limitations of conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst achieves 97% propylene selectivity, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high selectivity and conversion rates that tackle challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its ability to achieve significant propene selectivity at high propane conversion rates demonstrates its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst significantly enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and efficiency, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, directly tackling the challenges of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock. Its non-oxidative conversion boosts efficiency and product selectivity, making it a leading method for propylene production, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offering superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its use of propane from diverse sources, notably shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective choice, promising higher yields and selectivity for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a high-value alternative to conventional propylene production methods, boasting feedstock flexibility, higher efficiency, and selectivity. Its independence from specific feedstocks and superior performance make it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, directly addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from natural gas, efficiently meets the growing global demand for propylene with lower energy consumption and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. It addresses challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity for propylene, making it a sustainable alternative for production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. It excels in propane-to-propylene conversion with high selectivity and stability, effectively tackling catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, diminishes dependence on oil-based feedstocks and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. This enhances efficiency and selectivity, making PDH competitive with lower costs and reduced toxicity compared to conventional methods, effectively addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, has led to the prominence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. In 2020, propylene demand reached 116 million tons, underscoring its industrial significance. While alternatives exist, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the most promising pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, making PDH an even more viable solution for utilizing abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene to meet growing demand. It offers improved feedstock availability and potentially lower costs, with enhanced process efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation and use of Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional methods. This makes PDH an environmentally friendly and promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a promising solution for rising propylene demand, faces efficiency and selectivity hurdles due to Pt-based catalysts' limitations, impacting short-term stability and propylene purity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production, particularly in utilizing abundant shale gas resources efficiently. Platinum-based catalysts, despite deactivation concerns, are essential, with anti-sintering versions being developed to withstand cyclic coke combustion, highlighting PDH's potential in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a direct and efficient route for propylene production, surpassing conventional methods, especially when demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH show good stability and high selectivity, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products, making it a standout solution. Conventional methods, such as naphtha steam cracking, face challenges with growing demands and high fossil energy consumption, highlighting PDH's efficiency and product selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, particularly with cobalt-based catalysts, stands out as a promising solution. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, which are hindered by toxicity and high costs. Cobalt's earth abundance in PDH catalysts ensures long-term sustainability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative to meet the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly converting propane with high efficiency and selectivity, surpassing traditional methods. It notably reduces environmental impact and optimizes resource use by avoiding energy-intensive processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cost-effective propane, offers superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency over conventional methods, optimizing facilities and reducing investment, making it a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently meets global propylene demand with high conversion and selectivity, reducing byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional methods, making PDH a sustainable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, spurred by the shift to abundant light alkanes, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Its active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, overcoming key challenges faced by conventional methods, as evidenced by its increasing development due to the availability of shale gas and natural gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane, ensures high propene conversion and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based, Ni-enhanced catalysts offer cost-effective, nontoxic alternatives, addressing conventional production limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a leading solution for escalating global propene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process that contrasts with conventional methods' fossil fuel reliance, CO2 emissions, and lower propylene selectivity. PDH leverages inexpensive feedstocks from propane-rich shale gas, thanks to fracking technology, making it highly profitable due to the price disparity between propylene and propane and the expanding market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas from hydraulic fracturing, ensures feedstock availability. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 exemplify high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, optimizing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, optimized conditions and catalysts enable PDH to closely achieve ideal conversion rates, mitigating high energy consumption. Strategies to increase propane conversion reduce costs, making suitable reaction conditions crucial for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for meeting the rising global demand for propylene, offering exclusive olefin selectivity over MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. Its reliance on shale gas ensures strategic feedstock availability. PDH excels in thermodynamic properties and selective activation of CH bonds, ensuring high olefin selectivity and addressing limitations of conventional methods. This makes PDH a superior choice for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene yields with fewer byproducts under milder conditions than steam cracking. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion minimizes unwanted byproducts, while lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages the abundance of propane from natural gas production to efficiently produce propylene. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, though challenges in deactivation and stability persist. PDH offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. Operating without oxidants, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation, distinguishing it as a superior method over conventional approaches.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane. Research into alternative catalysts, notably indium-based ones, aims to enhance PDH efficiency and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Efforts include exploring Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts to improve process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for propylene production. It faces challenges with the high cost of Pt metal and toxicity of Cr catalysts, similar to conventional methods. Developing cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, making it a more viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers enhanced selectivity and efficiency, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for growing global propylene demand. Its advantages specifically address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods, particularly in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting shale gas propane to propylene, excels in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity, surpassing conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It's ideal for shale gas-rich regions, offering higher propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting rising global propylene demand, a key petrochemical. It boasts high selectivity, directly producing propylene without hybrid byproducts, unlike conventional methods. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, propane feedstock is now abundant and cost-effective, overcoming traditional production limitations. PDH's superior efficiency and selectivity, coupled with a forecasted 2-3% annual demand growth until 2035, underscore its significance in the petrochemical sector.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a superior solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction has significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has led to a drop in propylene supply and a rise in its price, creating a favorable market for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, making it a standout choice for meeting demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This green and affordable method overcomes the high costs and environmental impact of conventional propylene production methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, effectively tackling product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Its anti-coke stability, attributed to the state of active Co species and surface acid property, makes PDH a viable solution for propylene production amidst growing global demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high propylene selectivity and cost-effectiveness make it a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods. Advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction ensure abundant and affordable propane feedstock, enhancing PDH's efficiency and relevance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, offers a steady, cost-effective propylene supply. Its single-feed/single-product process enhances efficiency, directly addressing global demand and outperforming traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing advanced catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, PDH uses nanostructured catalysts to enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. By utilizing propane, PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues, enhancing catalyst activity, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly and economically converts propane to propylene, addressing the global demand amidst dwindling petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and affect propylene selectivity. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. Conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recently developed eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, address these issues by showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process, addressing the disrupted balance in production caused by ethylene availability. PDH excels in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a superior method to meet propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs due to its modular design. Vanadium-based catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, making PDH a superior alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively overcomes limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, which face challenges due to depleting oil resources, PDH ensures a steady propylene supply, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly converts propane to propylene in a single step, achieving higher efficiency and selectivity while minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular plants offer flexible, localized production, making PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for propylene production, particularly suitable for areas with limited infrastructure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-performance catalysts, is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene. Its endothermic process, requiring elevated temperatures for optimal yield, underscores the significance of efficient catalysts. This makes PDH a promising solution, tackling the constraints of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It leverages renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and advances with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts for improved propene selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 shows environmental promise but requires enhanced activity. Future catalyst design should focus on abundant elements and low temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant and affordable propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-effective propylene production. It boasts high selectivity for propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods in addressing the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers non-petroleum based production, overcoming limitations of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts, as demonstrated by the Zn-4@S-1 catalyst, which shows high dehydrogenation activity and 97% propylene selectivity, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high-performance catalysts and innovative NP encapsulation, offers significant advantages in propylene production. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing a ZnO-based catalyst, offers a significant alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production. It addresses environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, common in conventional methods. The ZnO catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. This route is more efficient, making it a solution to energy consumption and demand-supply gap issues in the propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a sustainable, cost-effective, and efficient alternative to conventional propylene production. By selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes, PDH achieves higher propylene yields with minimal byproducts, addressing the limitations of traditional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, presenting a viable alternative to conventional methods. It tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and selectivity, addressing global demand. It minimizes CO2 and NOx emissions, offering a sustainable alternative to conventional methods, which struggle with feedstock availability and high energy consumption. PDH's direct conversion process reduces byproducts, aligning with the need for cleaner, more targeted propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional processes leading to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, diminishes oil reliance and utilizes vanadium oxide catalysts, which outperform conventional catalysts in reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, thus boosting efficiency and product quality in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst surging global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method. PDH outperforms alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) by offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced PDH's capability to convert low-valued propane from abundant shale gas resources into high-valued propylene, underscoring its pivotal role in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas reserves, offers improved feedstock availability and potentially lower costs for propylene production. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing conventional method limitations. A superior catalyst could further boost PDH's efficiency and selectivity, solidifying its position as a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing global demand by offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, boasts longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it the optimal choice for meeting the increasing global need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand by improving the stability and selectivity of conventional Pt-based catalysts, offering a superior production method. This is crucial as Pt-based catalysts often suffer from short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, ensures feedstock availability for enhanced propylene production. Its endothermic process, though challenging due to coke deposition, is optimized by anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, which remain stable during cyclic coke combustion, thus improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering a more direct and efficient production route from propane. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through the use of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, which ensure good onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH an attractive alternative where steam cracking capacity is limited.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amid rising global propylene demand, excels with abundant feedstock and fewer by-products, directly tackling the shortcomings of conventional naphtha steam cracking methods. Its strengths in feedstock accessibility, operational efficiency, and product selectivity make it a compelling solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and increased propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, offer a viable alternative, enhancing PDH's potential for long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, produces propylene with high selectivity, offering superior resource efficiency and environmental benefits compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane, achieving higher propylene selectivity, and offering process efficiency. Its seamless integration into existing facilities effectively tackles the issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, making it more efficient and sustainable than traditional oil-based processes. Its reliance on widely available propane ensures a stable feedstock supply, and its energy efficiency and high yields make it a leading choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite energy intensity and high temperatures causing cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively overcoming these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, outperforming conventional techniques. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content enhance catalytic activity and stability, achieving high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, effectively tackling challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by reducing reliance on fossil fuels, lowering CO2 emissions, and increasing propylene selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH specifically targets propylene production without generating hybrid hydrocarbons. The advent of fracking technology has significantly reduced the cost of propane feedstocks for PDH, making it highly profitable given the growing propylene market and the price difference between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. With ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, showcasing high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, making it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production limitations. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can approach ideal results. Strategies to increase single-pass propane conversion, reducing costs, include raising temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, balancing equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. PDH ensures feedstock availability, high conversion, and selectivity, making it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. By leveraging large-scale shale gas exploitation, PDH serves as an effective supplement, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its thermodynamically limited, highly endothermic reactions ensure high selectivity toward olefins, making it a superior choice for propylene production. The efficient and selective activation of CH bonds, with suppression of CC cleavage, is crucial for PDH catalysts, ensuring high olefin selectivity, especially for propylene, considering its lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane, boasting higher propene selectivity for increased yields and reduced costs. This addresses conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently produces high yields of propylene with minimal byproducts under milder conditions than steam cracking. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene, at lower temperatures and pressures, minimizes byproducts, reduces energy consumption, and lowers emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale, offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, with their specific catalysts and pressures, tackle challenges such as catalyst deactivation and stability. PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production issues, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances efficiency and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by escalating global propylene demand and low propane costs from shale gas. PDH offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations. Indium-based catalysts enhance PDH's potential for high stability and selectivity, while ongoing research indicates the technology's capacity to improve efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology emerges as a solution to conventional production challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in PDH processes limit its potential, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology achieves higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts abundant propane into propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, offering a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand. It's particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, addressing feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges by directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas condensates for cost-effective feedstock, excels in producing pure propylene, not hybrid products, thereby addressing the projected 2-3% annual global demand growth until 2035, while improving efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology addresses challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing (quote 2) slashed gas costs by 75% since 2005 (quote 3), favoring shale gas as a feedstock. This led to a U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price (quote 5). PDH's profitability, bolstered by the propane-propylene price gap (quote 6), aligns with current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique (quote 7), PDH exclusively yields olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and robust regeneration stability, directly addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property are pivotal for high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high propylene selectivity, making it a superior solution to meet global propylene demand. It outperforms conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing their limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, offers a competitive solution for propylene production. It ensures a steady supply, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Its efficiency and cost-effectiveness, along with the abundance of cheap light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, make PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, excels in propylene production with high activity and yields. Despite its endothermic requirement for high temperatures, which affects C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts in PDH enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting abundant and low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing the challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes propane efficiently, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity. This method improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical. It directly converts propane to propylene, offering a commercially viable alternative that addresses the limitations of conventional production methods. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, PDH's development, particularly in enhancing catalyst efficiency and stability, is crucial for efficient propylene production. This process is the most economical and shortest route for propylene production, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking for propylene production, as evidenced by the construction of new plants. However, conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts pose health risks and high costs. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, needing metal oxide promotion and Ru/Rh NP support, address these challenges, showing potential in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering superior efficiency and selectivity in production. It addresses the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene supply, ensuring a steady propylene supply where conventional methods fall short. PDH is the most efficient process, excelling in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it ideal for high-demand scenarios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for high efficiency and superior conversion rates, minimizing by-products. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH offers a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods, with research highlighting the potential of vanadium-based catalysts for enhanced activity, selectivity, and regeneration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap to propylene, offers a cost-effective solution for propylene production. It outperforms traditional methods by addressing feedstock scarcity, enhancing efficiency, and improving selectivity, making it a viable alternative to meet global demand without depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas, enhances feedstock availability and reduces naphtha reliance. Its single-step conversion from propane to propylene boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and costs. PDH's modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. Its high yields and lower environmental impact make PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, ensures high propylene yields. Its reliance on high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts addresses the challenges of conventional methods, notably improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and has potential in ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 processes. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are promising, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally beneficial, requires improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and consider abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propylene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers high propylene selectivity and hydrogen as a by-product, making it a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution to meet global propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts like Zn@S-1, is advantageous for propylene production. It offers high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating superior efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, the ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, highlighting its environmental compatibility and industrial relevance.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods, making it a promising technology in the sector due to its process efficiency and product selectivity advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It excels in efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher outputs than traditional methods. PDH's use of shale gas resources and selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes make it a promising method to meet global propylene demand, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology transforms low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering a competitive edge over traditional processes by tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution for the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently addresses growing propylene demand, unlike conventional methods reliant on scarce naphtha and crude oil. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable method overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for global propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability. It minimizes coke formation and sintering, common issues in traditional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation, making PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas and vanadium oxide catalysts, offers superior reactivity and selectivity, addressing conventional propylene production challenges. It reduces oil dependency, enhances efficiency and selectivity, and results in competitive performance with lower costs and toxicity compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. As noted in Quote 4, PDH offers a cost-effective and environmentally sound pathway for high-value propylene production. Quote 5 highlights how advancements in hydraulic fracturing have boosted the conversion of abundant shale gas-derived propane, further underscoring PDH's superiority in meeting the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, enhances feedstock availability for propylene production. It offers higher efficiency and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods, with direct propylene production and lower costs. The development of a high-performance catalyst is crucial for maximizing PDH's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering enhanced efficiency, longevity, and environmental benefits. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it the preferred choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, offers superior feedstock efficiency, process optimization, and selectivity, outshining conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity hinder PDH's full potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, is emerging as a key solution for propylene production, leveraging increased propane supply from shale gas exploration. Its stable catalysts during cyclic coke combustion enhance efficiency and address limitations of conventional methods, effectively utilizing abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising alternative for propylene production, particularly when steam cracking's capacity is stretched. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH offer high selectivity and onstream stability, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity, ensuring a steady propylene supply to meet growing global demand, unlike conventional methods constrained by feedstock availability and process limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas propane reserves, PDH technology, featuring cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a viable solution. It overcomes challenges posed by Cr toxicity and Pt costs, inherent in conventional methods, making PDH a promising approach for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and efficiency in converting propane directly to propylene. It surpasses traditional methods with higher yields and lower energy consumption, addressing global demand sustainably with reduced environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing affordable propane and butane, boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Its retrofitting potential minimizes investment, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers superior efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, ensuring stable output, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, emerges as a solution in propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency, while improving product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and risks of cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively overcoming industry challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, efficiently meets global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with moderate Ni, improve activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution that addresses conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering a targeted process unlike conventional fossil fuel-dependent methods with low propylene selectivity and high CO2 emissions. The shale gas revolution, rich in propane, has slashed PDH feedstock costs. PDH's adaptable factories and the growing propylene market, coupled with the price differential between propylene and propane, make the technology highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, achieving high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, thereby enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion, addressing conventional method challenges. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring efficient conversion of abundant propane to propylene with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a strategic choice for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas as a feedstock addresses these issues, making it a key solution in meeting the growing global demand for olefins. The technology's selectivity and efficiency make it a promising method, especially considering the limitations of conventional production methods. Unlike other processes, PDH ensures high selectivity toward olefins, which is crucial for both EDH and PDH reactions, particularly for PDH due to propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production, boasting higher selectivity and increased yields from propane, which reduces costs. Its ability to utilize propane from diverse feedstocks enhances availability and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages propane from various sources, including natural gas and refinery off-gases, ensuring flexibility. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes provide high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage, directly converting propane to propylene. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, improving efficiency, and limit the formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide, further enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas production, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specific catalysts for dehydrogenation, though deactivation and stability remain challenges. Efforts are made to improve catalyst resistance to coke and aggregation. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the global demand for propylene and low propane costs from shale gas. Indium-based catalysts in PDH offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional propylene production. Ongoing research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand, leveraging abundant shale-gas propane. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Commercial processes like Oleflex and Catofin use PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively, but high Pt costs and Cr toxicity highlight the need for more cost-effective and eco-friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers superior propylene selectivity and reduced energy consumption, making it cost-effective and sustainable. Its single-reactor design boosts efficiency and selectivity, especially in regions rich in propane. Targeted conversion in PDH results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently addresses feedstock availability, offering higher selectivity and converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective conversion makes PDH a cleaner, targeted solution to meet rising global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in meeting escalating global demand. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, it secures a cost-effective and abundant propane supply. PDH's exclusive propylene output boosts selectivity, a critical advantage over conventional methods. With demand forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and product specificity are essential for future production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, capitalizing on cost-effective shale gas extraction to ensure feedstock availability. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, driving up its price. PDH benefits from the price differential between propane and propylene, making it a profitable alternative. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity olefins, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability and outperforming conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. This green and cost-effective approach makes PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing global demand challenges for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene selectivity and regeneration stability, directly addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property enhance its anti-coke stability, making PDH a viable solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and efficient solution for propylene production, with high selectivity. Propane's abundance and lower cost, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a promising method to meet global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock, efficiently meets growing global propylene demand. Its advantages include product selectivity, process efficiency, and cost-effectiveness, supported by abundant, cheap light alkanes from unconventional gas sources. This method, with its single feed and product, wide raw material sources, and lower costs, is a promising solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional methods that can't meet market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method that addresses conventional challenges by improving efficiency and selectivity. Despite its high-temperature operation, which impacts C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, mitigating these effects.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing declining fossil oil resources and growing market demand. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by skipping intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical, and commercially viable method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and depletion of petroleum resources. It faces challenges due to high-temperature requirements promoting side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading eco-friendly method for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking, addressing the growing global demand sustainably. Its role is expanding with new plants under construction. Conventional PDH catalysts have health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, enhance activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, excelling in efficiency and selectivity. It overcomes challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, providing a reliable propylene source where conventional methods are limited.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are pivotal in PDH, an on-purpose non-oxidative process. This process gains prominence due to advancements in shale gas exploration, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional methods limited by petroleum depletion.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers a single-step, efficient, and selective propylene production process. Its modular design supports localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. Compared to steam cracking, PDH is more cost-effective, yields higher propylene quantities, and is more sustainable.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, requiring high-temperature endothermic reactions and high-activity catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr based catalysts, and using renewable green propane as feedstock. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, and unlike oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2), it avoids overoxidation. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are emerging as highly active and selective. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with further development, can transform propylene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets growing global propylene demand by utilizing abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, ensuring high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, effectively addressing supply-demand gaps and conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising solution for propylene production, tackling global demand and the limitations of conventional methods. Notably, the Zn@S-1 catalyst, being earth-abundant and non-toxic, exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, underscoring its industrial potential for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness without relying on non-noble metals, thus overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a ZnO-based catalyst, offers a greener, more efficient approach to propylene production. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, boasting three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane supply for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene with superior efficiency and selectivity, addressing the demand-supply gap caused by high energy consumption in traditional methods. PDH's non-oxidative process is more efficient, making it an emerging industrial solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a stable and abundant feedstock, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to traditional methods. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently, addressing the need for efficient production processes to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing global demand challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane from abundant natural gas, efficiently produces propylene with reduced CO2 and NOx emissions, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. This makes PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene, a key raw material in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, offering high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability. It notably reduces coke formation and catalyst deactivation, common issues in traditional processes, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for enhanced feedstock flexibility, boasts superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability via vanadium oxide catalysts. This makes PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the 116 million tons global propylene demand in 2020, PDH technology emerges as a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution, outshining MTP and WGSR. PDH tackles feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, low-valued propane from shale gas is optimally utilized, solidifying PDH's position as the prime method for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, addressing global demand. Its key advantages include enhanced feedstock availability and process efficiency, potentially lower costs, and improved product selectivity. A superior catalyst boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering enhanced feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its strengths in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness make it superior to conventional methods. Notably, Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, effectively addressing the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, yet its Pt-based catalysts, while widely used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, as highlighted: 'Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has great potential to meet the increasing global demand for propylene, but the widely used Pt-based catalysts usually suffer from short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity.'", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, addresses propylene demand by improving feedstock availability and product selectivity. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, boost process efficiency, making PDH a viable solution to conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, directly addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering high selectivity and onstream stability. This method efficiently overcomes limitations of conventional production, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a superior route for propylene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology excels by utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products, offering strategic advantages over conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle with increasing fossil energy consumption. PDH's high efficiency and selectivity make it a critical solution in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample shale-gas propane reserves, PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, offering a viable long-term solution due to Co's earth abundance, unlike traditional Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts which face issues of Cr toxicity and Pt's high cost.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity and efficiency in converting propane to propylene, without energy-intensive steps, optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, making it superior for meeting global propylene demand compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane and butane feedstocks, offering easy integration into current facilities, and achieving higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively overcoming the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, ensuring stable production with minimized byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable, making it a sustainable choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas, boosts propylene production by enhancing feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues through the active site isolation strategy, despite its energy intensity and high-temperature requirements that can lead to cracking and coking, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propylene production, offering high conversion rates and selectivity due to enhanced zinc-based catalysts. This makes PDH a promising solution, specifically addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high efficiency and selectivity. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production without creating hybrid hydrocarbons. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and the technology's adaptability, combined with the growing propylene market, makes PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane and efficient ZnO-based catalysts, offers high propylene selectivity, addressing feedstock availability and enhancing process efficiency, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite thermodynamic equilibrium limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts closely achieve ideal results, making PDH energy-intensive yet cost-effective by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures improve conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring PDH's superiority in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins unlike alternative pathways such as MTO, FTO, and ODH. It serves as an effective supplement to conventional methods, leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to address challenges faced by traditional methods. PDH's thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic reactions provide process efficiency benefits, while the use of alkanes as feedstocks specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency. Efficient and selective activation of the CH bond with suppression of the CC cleavage is crucial for PDH catalysts, ensuring high selectivity toward olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane, boasting higher propene selectivity for increased yields and reduced costs. This makes PDH environmentally friendly and economically advantageous over conventional methods, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, directly converting propane to propylene with high yields and minimal byproducts. This enhances efficiency and selectivity, reduces energy consumption, and lowers greenhouse gas emissions, effectively addressing challenges of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, an abundant and economical feedstock from natural gas production, ensures steady supply. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process. Challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, but PDH remains a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, exemplified by Catofin and Oleflex, are advantageous for propylene production, addressing global demand and benefiting from low propane costs from shale gas. Ongoing research into catalysts, notably indium-based materials and a variety including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlights PDH's potential for high stability and selectivity, directly tackling conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a promising method for propylene production. It addresses challenges faced by conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is critical for advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by directly converting propane to propylene, boasts higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution, particularly in propane-rich regions. This technology effectively tackles limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene using abundant shale gas feedstock. This offers sustainability and cost-effectiveness over conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil. PDH exhibits higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, addresses challenges by utilizing cheaper, plentiful propane from hydraulic fracturing, offering high product selectivity for propylene, and requiring regulated reaction conditions for improved efficiency. With propylene demand forecasted to grow 2% to 3% annually by 2035, PDH's development is crucial, especially as it produces only propylene, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have significantly reduced gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane has curtailed propylene supply, driving up its price and enhancing PDH's profitability. PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant propane to propylene, excels in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Pursuing a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene addresses environmental and product selectivity challenges of traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from other processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances propylene production with over 95% selectivity and stable regeneration, addressing process efficiency and selectivity challenges. This method offers improved feedstock utilization, making it advantageous over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as high energy consumption and low selectivity, by utilizing abundant and cheaper propane from advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as the sole feedstock to produce propylene, offers a streamlined process. It utilizes abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, overcoming the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods. PDH's advantages, such as a single product, wide raw material source, and lower costs, make it a competitive solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite requiring high temperatures that affect selectivity and catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing feedstock availability. It enhances process efficiency by avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, ensuring catalyst stability. This direct conversion makes PDH a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and economical solution for the growing global demand for propylene, a crucial petrochemical. By directly converting propane, PDH offers a shorter production route compared to conventional methods. However, the process is endothermic and requires high temperatures, which can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing PDH's industrial propylene production capabilities.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cleaner natural/shale gas, provides environmental benefits over oil-based methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and cost, are being addressed by new eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets growing global propylene demand, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. It specifically tackles feedstock availability challenges, making it a key solution for large-scale propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion rates and selectivity, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs than traditional plants. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, reinforce PDH's position as a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene, effectively meets the growing global demand for propylene without depleting petroleum resources, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas propane, offers a single-step conversion to propylene, boosting efficiency and selectivity while minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, making it economically and environmentally superior with lower costs and higher yields compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, crucial for meeting global propylene demand, overcomes conventional production challenges by focusing on catalyst development for high activity, stability, and selectivity, thereby enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This addresses the endothermic nature of PDH, requiring high temperatures for optimal yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses conventional method challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving efficiency and selectivity. Compared to ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2, PDH excels in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activation. The scarcity of catalytic elements suggests a shift to more abundant alternatives. Research on low-temperature CO2 activation is a priority. PDH's development could transform propylene manufacturing, utilizing green propane for a sustainable chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly, cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and hydrogen as a by-product, effectively tackling global demand and conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Its key advantages include zinc's earth-abundance, non-toxicity, and high propylene selectivity, making PDH more efficient and environmentally friendly. It boasts good dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability, directly tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high activity, selectivity, and stability, utilizes cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts to address the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. By encapsulating NPs into an NC layer, PDH achieves superior performance, exemplified by 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating its potential to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns and showcasing higher efficiency. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, underlining its environmental compatibility and industrial viability.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, ensures stable and cost-effective propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, addressing energy intensity and demand-supply gaps. PDH's improved process efficiency and product selectivity make it an efficient solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, ensures reliable feedstock supply. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it sustainable and cost-effective. PDH's potential for higher yields and selectivity, especially with shale gas resources, makes it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, addressing global demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH is not feedstock-specific, enhancing efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, boosts propylene production efficiency and sustainability. It directly converts propane to propylene, minimizing CO2 and NOx emissions, and reduces byproducts, effectively addressing the growing global demand for this key chemical raw material, unlike conventional methods which are high energy-consuming and increase contaminants.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt catalyst with Sn promoter, PDH achieves high selectivity and stability in propane conversion to propylene, significantly reducing common catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, thus addressing the challenges of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas, excels in process efficiency and product selectivity with vanadium oxide catalysts, offering a cost-effective, less toxic solution to meet global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method. PDH surpasses alternatives like MTP and WGSR in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, as noted in Quote 4, make it a superior choice. Advances in hydraulic fracturing, mentioned in Quote 5, have further enhanced PDH's appeal by converting abundant shale gas into high-value propylene, addressing the challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, excels in feedstock availability, offering higher efficiency and improved product selectivity over traditional methods. It directly produces propylene, benefiting from lower costs and a more efficient process that enhances selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing high propylene demand, offers superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation and extended reactive longevity make it eco-friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and stability, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, yet Pt-based catalysts pose a challenge with short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, enhances propylene production by addressing feedstock availability, optimizing conversion rates for greater efficiency, and improving product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, leveraging VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for enhanced onstream stability and high selectivity. Novel catalyst development targets cost reduction and toxicity issues, making PDH a more efficient and viable alternative to conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst growing global propylene demand, offers abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, addressing conventional method limitations. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, meeting demands as fossil energy consumption rises, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cobalt-based catalysts, is a promising solution to meet rising global propylene demand, leveraging Co's earth abundance. It addresses conventional method limitations, such as Cr toxicity and Pt high cost, suggesting long-term utility in propylene production amidst growing propane reserves from shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. It bypasses energy-intensive steps, offering greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane, enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and propylene selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It offers the added benefit of easy retrofitting, avoiding significant investment.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to ensure stable, efficient, and selective propylene supply, minimizing byproduct formation. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses feedstock limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Despite its energy-intensive process and high-temperature requirements, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles challenges of selectivity and catalyst stability, as evidenced by Quote 5, which highlights the proven effectiveness of isolating active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, crucial for propylene production, leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, directly addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness and nontoxicity, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes that are fossil fuel-dependent, emit high CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene production, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon outputs. The advent of fracking technology has made shale gas, rich in propane, a cost-effective feedstock for PDH. PDH plants are adaptable and benefit from the price differential between propylene and propane, making them highly profitable in the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability, a key challenge in propylene production. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through advanced catalysts like ZnO on silicalite-1, which exhibit high catalytic activity, stability, and yield of propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal conversion rates with optimized catalysts and conditions. It addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, and improving process efficiency and selectivity. Increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments reduces costs, highlighting PDH's commercial viability and catalyst development importance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its exclusive selectivity to olefins, making it a superior alternative to conventional SC and FCC methods in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene. As a strategic supplement, PDH leverages the abundant alkanes from shale gas, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. Its thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties ensure high conversion rates, addressing the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional production techniques. This makes PDH a promising solution for sustainable propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production from abundant propane, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. This direct conversion process reduces production costs and environmental impact, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce high yields of propylene with fewer byproducts, operating under milder conditions for enhanced efficiency and selectivity. It minimizes unwanted byproducts and reduces energy consumption and emissions, directly addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, offers a superior method for propylene production. It simplifies reactant and product distribution, reduces investment, and integrates smoothly with existing technologies. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, using distinct catalysts and pressures, face challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability. Efforts are made to improve resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation for long-term stability. Light alkanes from natural gas, including shale gas, provide a steady and economical feedstock for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost propane, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Indium-based catalysts are particularly advantageous, and ongoing research into diverse catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, enhances PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane from shale gas, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, emerges as a solution to production challenges. It addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, directly converting abundant propane into propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process reduces complexity and costs, achieving higher yields and potentially lower operating expenses, making it particularly advantageous in propane-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, by converting propane to propylene, leverages abundant shale gas resources, enhancing feedstock availability compared to conventional naphtha or oil cracking. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products, making it a sustainable, cost-effective choice, especially in shale gas regions, to meet global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's selectivity for propylene boosts efficiency, crucial for meeting future needs as demand is forecasted to grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, tackling feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity issues. Enhanced fracking techniques (Quote 2) have dramatically reduced gas costs (Quote 3), favoring shale gas as a prime feedstock. The U.S. transition from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has diminished propylene supply, escalating its price (Quote 5). PDH's profitability is amplified by the current propane-propylene price gap (Quote 6), and as an on-purpose technique, it exclusively yields high-purity propylene (Quote 7), unlike mixed-product conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, offers superior feedstock availability by efficiently converting abundant propane to propylene. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity for propylene highlight improved process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods, addressing the need for a green, low-cost catalyst to overcome traditional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently inhibits overoxidation to boost process efficiency, and offers high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, enhanced by Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, achieves over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The state of active Co species and surface acid property, tuned by Ti species, are critical for high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity and cost-effectiveness, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Enhanced by advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a more efficient and cheaper propane feedstock, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane as a single feedstock for propylene production, offers enhanced efficiency and cost-effectiveness. It addresses the limitations of traditional methods by utilizing abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, making it a strategic choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers advantages in propylene production by improving efficiency and selectivity, despite the high-temperature requirement that can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause catalyst instability. Nanostructured catalysts enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It offers high selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity without hydrocarbon cracking or coke formation issues, which can reduce catalyst activity and stability. Utilizing propane as a feedstock, PDH improves availability and minimizes undesired side reactions by bypassing intermediate steps.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propane-to-propylene conversion, is pivotal in meeting the surging global demand for propylene, a critical petrochemical. As highlighted in quote [1], propylene is essential for various products. PDH, as noted in quote [3], is commercially viable and more economical than conventional methods, especially as petroleum resources dwindle. However, the high-temperature requirement, as mentioned in quote [4], leads to side reactions (quote [5]) that affect propylene selectivity and catalyst longevity (quote [6]). Thus, developing efficient, stable catalysts under harsh conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstocks, addressing limitations of oil-based methods. Its importance grows with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts raise health concerns due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed, providing a sustainable solution for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting rising global propylene demand, excelling in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses conventional method limitations, specifically feedstock availability and efficiency, making it the preferred on-purpose propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. It boasts a superior propane-to-propylene conversion rate, minimizing by-products, and its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower costs. As a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking, PDH's performance is enhanced by vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, capitalizing on abundant propane and the significant price differential between propane and propylene, is a promising solution to meet escalating global propylene demand. It overcomes the limitations of conventional production methods, like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to dwindling petroleum resources, ensuring sufficient propylene production from a rich and sustainable feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular PDH plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. Its abundant feedstock, higher yields, and lower energy consumption make PDH a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods, directly addressing the challenges of meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by leveraging its endothermic nature, which necessitates high temperatures for high yields. This underscores the critical role of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt or Cr catalysts, excels in propylene production, addressing feedstock scarcity, process efficiency, and selectivity. It leverages renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, prevents coke but risks overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally friendly, has lower yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in PDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activation in ODH-CO2, prioritizing abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation for green propane-based propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas as feedstock, efficiently meets growing propylene demand. It offers cost savings and environmental benefits, with high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen by-product, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a non-petroleum alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, with high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, plus regeneration capability, is promising for industrial PDH processes. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic substitute, is explored due to the scarcity and toxicity of platinum and chromium in current PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for sustainable propylene production, addressing global demand with environmental benefits. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH processes demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, effectively tackling production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas resources, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source, directly converting it to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods. Its non-oxidative route ensures higher product selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the challenges of conventional propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective alternative for propylene production. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, particularly when using propane from shale gas, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs and selectivity compared to traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Its independence from specific feedstocks enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently addresses the global demand for propylene, a critical raw material. It surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency, significantly reducing CO2 and NOx emissions, and exhibits higher selectivity for propylene production, directly overcoming the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing common catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, boosts propylene production by reducing dependence on oil-based sources. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. These advantages make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2020 global propylene demand of 116 million tons, PDH technology emerges as the preferred solution for production. It outperforms conventional methods like MTP and WGSR by optimizing feedstock use, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity. PDH's cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it the ideal pathway for high-value propylene production (Quote 4). Advances in hydraulic fracturing further boost propane conversion, solidifying PDH's position as a leading technology (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, ensures better feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It simplifies the process, boosting efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods, significantly enhanced by the development of a highly active and selective PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation capability, longer reactive lifespan, and environmental benefits make it a compelling choice over conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, outshining conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, face issues with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for enhanced process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, effectively addresses feedstock availability challenges in propylene production, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand, as it overcomes limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, excels in propylene selectivity and onstream stability, tackling process efficiency and selectivity issues. It's particularly advantageous where feedstock constraints limit steam cracking, effectively meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products compared to conventional naphtha steam cracking. It enhances efficiency and selectivity, addressing growing demand and traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample shale gas-derived propane, PDH technology stands out, leveraging earth-abundant cobalt catalysts for long-term potential. This addresses conventional methods' limitations, making PDH a key strategy to meet global propylene needs by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's high selectivity in converting propane to propylene, without relying on energy-intensive processes, optimizes resource use and reduces environmental impact, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane from petrochemical processes, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. Its compatibility with existing facilities avoids significant investment, making it a leading solution to meet growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. It's more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable than oil-based processes, which have lower yields and require complex separation. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced oil dependency make it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to light alkanes, offers improved feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite high energy intensity and temperatures leading to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for meeting escalating global propylene demand, leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane for high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Enhancing zinc-based catalysts with Ni boosts activity and stability, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods. PDH's feedstock flexibility and process efficiency specifically tackle challenges in propylene production, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a targeted propylene production method, offers high efficiency and selectivity, unlike conventional fossil fuel-dependent processes with high CO2 emissions. It specifically addresses the growing demand for propylene by avoiding the production of hybrid hydrocarbons. Benefiting from fracking technology, PDH uses inexpensive propane-rich shale gas as feedstock, making it highly profitable due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas and advancements in hydraulic fracturing, efficiently meets global propylene demand. ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boost catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus in research and industry, efficiently converts propane to propylene and H2, addressing global demand challenges. Its endothermic reaction, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can approach ideal results with proper catalysts and conditions. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Strategies include increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures of hydrocarbons and H2. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion with the risk of unselective reactions, ensuring high conversion rates and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. Unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH, PDH leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. Its thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic reactions provide process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering the lower stability of propylene. This technology overcomes limitations of conventional methods by utilizing abundant alkanes in shale gas as feedstocks, ensuring high selectivity and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional methods' challenges. Its enhanced selectivity for propene results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and advantageous process.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, addresses conventional propylene production limitations by operating under milder conditions for high yields and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds, minimizing CC cleavage for direct propane-to-propylene conversion. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH improve efficiency, reduce energy consumption, and lower greenhouse gas emissions, offering high product selectivity with minimal byproducts.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers key advantages for propylene production: simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation, addressed by improving resistance to coke and protecting active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by global propylene demand and low-cost propane, offers advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Indium-based catalysts in PDH ensure high stability and selectivity, overcoming traditional production challenges. Research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, underlines efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "In response to the escalating global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, such as Oleflex and Catofin, using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts respectively, are pivotal. PDH addresses limitations of conventional production methods by offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is essential to fully capitalize on PDH's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by directly converting abundant propane with higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations, reduces costs, and enhances sustainability, particularly in propane-rich regions. PDH's targeted conversion boosts yields and lowers operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner method meets growing propylene demand, outperforming conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene. Its advantage lies in utilizing abundant shale gas condensates rich in propane, thanks to hydraulic fracturing technology. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without byproducts, ensures high product selectivity and efficiency, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene highlights PDH technology's advantages, driven by cost-effective fracking that surges shale gas supply, slashing gas costs by 75% since 2005. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, escalating its price and PDH's profitability, bolstered by the favorable propane-propylene price gap. PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods, and optimized processes ensure polymer-quality olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods that often rely on costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts. PDH's focus on environmental challenges and cost-effectiveness makes it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas for abundant and cost-effective propane, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasts high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This advancement supports recycling PDH reactions, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, particularly addressing limitations in feedstock availability faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, is a cost-effective and efficient method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. The technology leverages the abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in gas extraction, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, offers a competitive solution for growing global propylene demand. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from shale gas, PDH ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, unlike traditional naphtha and coal methods. Its single feed/product process and economic benefits make PDH a promising method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH overcomes these issues through the use of nanostructured catalysts, improving propyl intermediate adsorption and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing dwindling fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It enhances efficiency and selectivity by skipping intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions, unlike conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a vital solution for the escalating global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical (Quote [1]). It offers an economical and direct conversion of propane to propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods (Quote [2]). Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex (Quote [3]), PDH faces challenges due to its high-temperature requirement, leading to side reactions that affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quotes [4]-[6]). Efficient catalyst development is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in on-purpose propylene production, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It effectively tackles the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a preferred choice over conventional methods, especially in light of the global demand for propylene and the shift in production dynamics influenced by abundant natural gas and shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, excels in propylene production with high efficiency and selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. PDH boasts a high conversion rate and minimizes by-products, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods. Recent advancements in vanadium-based catalysts further enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, addressing limitations of traditional noble metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane and the significant price gap between propane and propylene, ensuring sufficient propylene production to meet global demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH overcomes challenges posed by dwindling petroleum resources, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, boosts propylene production's efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design enables flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs. PDH offers lower operating costs and higher propylene yields, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses global propylene demand by employing high-temperature propane dehydrogenation. Its key advantage is the use of advanced catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, which significantly enhance propylene yields and efficiency over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional propylene production challenges by utilizing renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and advancing with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts for improved selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 offers environmental benefits but requires activity enhancement. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and CO2 activation at low temperatures, aiming to transform propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently bridges the propylene supply-demand gap. It offers eco-friendly, cost-effective processes with high selectivity to propylene, yielding valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it a preferred industrial solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, notably Zn@S-1, offers a promising solution for propylene production. It excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it advantageous for meeting global demand. Zn@S-1 catalysts demonstrate high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, PDH catalysts, devoid of non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, showcasing its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental issues by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based PDH catalyst exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas resources, offers a stable propane source and directly converts propane to propylene, enhancing production efficiency. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is more efficient and represents an emerging industry standard, addressing the demand-supply gap caused by high energy consumption in traditional routes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and crude oil refining, offers superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes, making it a sustainable and cost-effective choice with potential for higher yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an efficient alternative for propylene production, excelling in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, efficiently meets rising global propylene demand. It outperforms conventional methods by offering superior product selectivity, lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and reduced reliance on oil-based feedstocks, making it a sustainable, energy-efficient solution for the chemical industry, as highlighted in [1], [2], [3], [4], [5], [6].", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive, CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. It utilizes a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional processes, thus addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas, diminishes reliance on oil-based feedstocks. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming conventional Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts, thereby enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "To meet the soaring global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most viable solution, offering superior feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity. In 2020, the demand reached 116 million tons, highlighting the need for advanced production methods. PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages over MTP and WGSR processes. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further bolstered PDH's attractiveness by enabling the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, is a promising propylene production method, offering improved feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced efficiency and selectivity. An advanced catalyst could further optimize these benefits, directly addressing the limitations of conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with Pt-based catalysts, stands out in propylene production by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It boosts catalytic performance and environmental friendliness, offering superior propylene selectivity and stability over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing growing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, central to PDH, face challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, indicating ongoing issues.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas propane for feedstock, ensuring high conversion efficiency through its endothermic process and excelling in selective propylene production. This makes PDH pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with high selectivity and onstream stability, specifically addresses the growing global demand for propylene and the limitations of current technologies, making PDH a viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products, thus addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves, PDH technology, bolstered by cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution. Cobalt's earth-abundant nature ensures PDH's long-term viability, addressing the need for new catalysts. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable option to meet the urgent demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and efficiency while reducing environmental impact, making it a promising solution to meet global demand amidst challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing affordable propane and butane, achieving higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It addresses conventional method challenges through easy retrofitting of existing facilities without significant investment.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, making it a sustainable and economically viable alternative. It minimizes byproducts, increases yields, and reduces energy use, ensuring a stable feedstock supply and streamlining production with high conversion rates, addressing global propylene demand effectively.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's rise in propylene production, fueled by the abundant light alkanes from shale and natural gas, addresses conventional method limitations. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite high energy demands and cracking risks at elevated temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propylene production. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance activity and stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods. PDH offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, addressing conventional methods' fossil fuel dependency, high CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. As a dedicated process, PDH focuses solely on propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon outputs. The fracking revolution has made propane, a PDH feedstock, cost-effective. PDH facilities are versatile, capable of various reactions, and profit from the propylene-propane price differential, thriving in a growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, ensures feedstock availability and employs efficient ZnO-based catalysts to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, demonstrating high catalytic activity and stability for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely achieving ideal results through optimized catalysts and conditions. Its endothermic nature is managed to maximize propane conversion, reducing costs and addressing global propylene demand. By increasing reaction temperature and minimizing hydrocarbon and H2 pressures, PDH ensures high efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demand for olefins. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. This makes PDH a superior method for propylene production, specifically tailored to overcome the limitations of conventional SC and FCC methods. The unique property of exclusive selectivity to olefins in PDH processes, unlike in MTO, FTO, and ODH, ensures higher product selectivity. PDH's ability to operate within a specific temperature range, effectively activating CH bonds while suppressing CC cleavage, contributes to its high selectivity toward olefins, especially in the context of lower propylene stability compared to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity for propene, which results in higher yields and lower costs. This makes PDH an environmentally friendly and economically viable alternative to conventional methods, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for high propylene yields and selectivity under milder conditions than steam cracking, thanks to efficient Pt-based catalysts. Its lower temperature and pressure operations reduce energy use and emissions, offering an efficient and environmentally friendly solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas production provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, saving energy compared to high-pressure processes. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, enhancing selectivity for propylene. Challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, which are being addressed through research efforts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are gaining interest for meeting global propylene demand using low-cost shale gas-derived propane. Indium-based catalysts in PDH offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Ongoing research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to further enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, solidifying its position as a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution. Commercial processes like Oleflex and Catofin demonstrate PDH's potential, yet the search for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical area for innovation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, ensures a stable feedstock supply as propane is a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining. It offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, with a simplified process in a single reactor, making it a sustainable, cost-effective choice, especially in regions with abundant propane. PDH meets global propylene demand more efficiently than traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production, converting low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. It addresses conventional methods' reliance on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, ensuring better feedstock availability. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products. This makes it advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas and critical for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Facing a 2-3% annual increase in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology is pivotal for direct propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, PDH leverages abundant, cost-effective propane feedstock, addressing limitations of conventional methods. PDH's selectivity in producing only propylene, not hybrid products, and the need for optimized reaction conditions to boost selectivity and productivity, underscore its significance in meeting future demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced fracking techniques have reduced gas costs, shifting preference from naphtha to ethane, leading to a drop in propylene supply and a price hike. PDH's profitability, influenced by the propane-propylene price gap, is favorable in current markets. Its on-purpose production ensures high-purity propylene, unlike the mixed olefins from conventional methods, making it a promising technology for meeting the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, ensuring superior feedstock availability. Its CoSiBeta catalyst boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts, PDH's catalysts ensure a more sustainable and efficient production process, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH excels for propylene, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability. It avoids overoxidation, boosting efficiency over ODH, and boasts high propylene selectivity, outperforming MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene. The enhanced selectivity and anti-coke stability, due to Co species and Ti-tuned surface acid property, address the challenges of conventional methods in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, offers high selectivity and cost-effectiveness in meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    