Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of a single feedstock (propane) and single product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. The abundance of light alkanes from unconventional gas sources ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, making PDH a competitive choice. This method addresses the limitations of traditional production, which can't meet the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH offers high activity and propylene yields. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity and stability in other processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key petrochemical used in diverse products. As petroleum resources dwindle, PDH emerges as the most economical and direct method for propylene production, offering an alternative to conventional methods. However, PDH's high-temperature requirements lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, addressing global demand sustainably. PDH's role in propylene production is expanding with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in dehydrogenation processes, addressing these issues.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH addresses the challenges of conventional production methods by improving feedstock availability and efficiency, making it a suitable on-purpose method for propylene production. The shift in industrial demand for propylene, due to the disruption of the balance by ethane and shale gas cracking, necessitates innovative approaches like PDH to maintain supply. As highlighted, PDH is the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene, effectively tackling the limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant shale gas as a feedstock, offering cost advantages over traditional naphtha. It boasts high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene, minimizing by-product formation. Its modular nature allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, offering high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages the abundant propane supply and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it economically advantageous. Unlike conventional methods, PDH can meet growing propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plant implementation allows for flexible and localized production, making PDH economically and environmentally viable, with lower operating costs and higher yields compared to conventional steam cracking methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, emphasizing the development of high-performance catalysts for improved activity, stability, and selectivity. This addresses the endothermic nature of the reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, and outperforms conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional methods' challenges. PDH uses renewable green propane, reducing dependency on non-renewable sources. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise without coke issues but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could revolutionize its manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several key advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes cheap and widely available propane from shale gas, ensuring a stable feedstock supply. PDH achieves high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it eco-friendly and cost-efficient. This technology's benefits, highlighted by its ability to address the supply-demand gap and its environmental and economic advantages, make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts have led to the investigation of zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, as a promising alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of zinc-based catalysts for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, through the encapsulation of NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer grown from zeolitic imidazolate framework-8 on a Silicalite-1 support, offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production. This approach controls ZnO NP size and prevents loss at high temperatures, achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the use of harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst, under relevant industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to use abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. This direct transformation process is efficient and increases propylene output. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often struggle to meet the demand for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant propane feedstock, higher efficiency, and reduced emissions compared to conventional methods. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH, utilizing propane from natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and offers higher selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the growing global demand for this chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional crude-oil-derived naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it utilizes propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outperforming conventional techniques like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane availability, further enhancing PDH's conversion and utilization capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of an active, selective, and durable PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, providing longer reactive longevity and environmental benefits. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhances propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential for improvement.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to enhance process efficiency. PDH's ability to efficiently convert propane to propylene, coupled with the increasing availability of shale gas, offers a promising solution to the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, particularly due to growing demand and limitations in increasing propene output through steam cracking. The development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane shows promise with good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges in conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by utilizing abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products. Propylene, a key chemical precursor, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet needs due to fossil energy consumption. PDH offers a solution with its efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas deposits highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, produced by various petrochemical processes. It offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing widely available propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. This makes PDH more sustainable and economically viable, with higher yields and reduced byproducts compared to traditional methods like steam cracking. PDH's reliance on propane ensures a stable source of propylene production, while its energy efficiency and selectivity for propylene minimize unwanted byproducts, streamlining the production process.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock efficiency and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH uses an active site isolation strategy to enhance selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing global demand and utilizing abundant propane from shale gas. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, provide cost-effective and nontoxic alternatives with improved catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts, unlike conventional methods that heavily rely on fossil fuels and have low propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, enhancing its profitability. PDH plants are adaptable, running various reactions, and the price difference between propylene and propane, coupled with growing market demand, makes PDH highly advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite thermodynamic limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results. Increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustment, pressure reduction, and H2 partial pressure lowering enhances efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties offer process efficiency advantages over conventional methods. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically addresses issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene compared to conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from various sources, including natural gas and petrochemical processes, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. PDH's direct and efficient process results in higher yields and lower production costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. Compared to conventional steam cracking, PDH operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity and minimizing byproduct formation. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity and improved process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and ease of integration with current technology, as highlighted in Quote 6. The abundance of propane from natural gas production, including shale gas, provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, offering energy efficiency and cost savings over processes requiring higher pressures. However, catalyst deactivation and long-term stability issues, as mentioned in Quote 2, remain challenges for PDH technology. Despite these, PDH offers a more selective and efficient process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies are being optimized to address the limitations of conventional methods, focusing on high stability and selectivity through the investigation of indium-based catalysts. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlighting efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to the vast reserves of propane in shale-gas deposits. This technology, employing processes like Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant feedstock and improving process efficiency. However, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical area for advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane as a feedstock, higher product selectivity, and process efficiency. It directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher yields and lower energy consumption compared to conventional methods. PDH's single-reactor process simplifies operations, reducing costs, and its design targets higher product selectivity and energy efficiency, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offering high process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's high propane conversion and propylene selectivity result in a cleaner, more targeted production process, meeting increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a projected 2% to 3% annual growth in global propylene demand by 2035, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a leading technology for propylene production. PDH's key advantage lies in its direct production of propylene, enhancing product selectivity. The technology benefits from abundant and cost-effective feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing enabling large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates. This proprietary method, focusing solely on propylene, contrasts with conventional processes that yield hybrid products, thus improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Market demand for chemical building blocks, like propylene, has steadily increased, except in the Eurozone, due to economic downturns. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enabled cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs. This has made shale gas, particularly ethane, a preferred feedstock for chemical production. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, currently favorable. PDH is an on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce mixed olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to upgrade abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts show high activity, they suffer from high cost, environmental issues, and fast deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to tackle product selectivity and environmental challenges associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas-derived propane, which ensures feedstock availability. It avoids overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. PDH's high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, offering a superior product profile.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. Enhanced by abundant and cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH offers a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and improved selectivity make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It improves feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, boosting efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. This method directly converts propane to propene, bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, petroleum-independent route for propylene conversion from propane, making it the most economical option. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking technologies. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts, containing CrOx or Pt, have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology has emerged as a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges posed by conventional methods. With the disruption of the balance in industrial demand for ethylene and propylene by natural gas and shale gas, PDH offers advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity, making it an efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene. It specifically tackles the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, positioning itself as an on-purpose method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are promising for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional catalysts. This technology, driven by shale gas exploration advancements, offers a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to traditional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the depletion of petroleum resources that limit conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC. By utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply to meet market demand. This method specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an effective alternative to traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more economically and environmentally viable option compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation necessitates high temperatures for high yields, highlighting the importance of developing high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology offers high spacetime yield, typically achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing challenges in propylene production. PDH uses renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing the need for regeneration. Oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) prevents coke but risks overoxidation, limiting propene yield. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show promise. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research on low temperature CO2 activation is recommended. PDH, with further development, can transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It utilizes abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst, overcoming the scarcity and toxicity issues of current PDH catalysts. The Zn@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. By encapsulating NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, the catalysts achieve about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst, addressing environmental concerns, shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which often result in a gap between demand and supply of propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has become an emerging technology, addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in addressing the global demand for propylene by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This provides more abundant and stable supply compared to naphtha used in traditional methods. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. PDH's ability to selectively activate CH bonds of light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, making it a promising and sustainable option for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its conversion of low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane as feedstock, addresses propylene demand by offering higher efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. Unlike naphtha and crude oil, propane ensures better availability, sourced from natural gas. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. Its direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes byproducts, enhancing product selectivity. This makes PDH a sustainable and promising solution for meeting the growing global need for propylene, a key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking in terms of energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering, common in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability. It utilizes vanadium oxide catalysts, which provide better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further promoted PDH by enhancing the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst the escalating global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. PDH offers key advantages over traditional processes like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, including better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH bypasses complex cracking processes, potentially reducing costs. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further enhances its efficiency and selectivity, addressing the challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts pose challenges with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, impacting its efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. The literature highlights the need for stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration. PDH's ability to effectively use shale gas feedstock and its potential for improved catalyst stability make it a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, shows promise for efficient and selective propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially improving process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. Novel catalysts are being developed to overcome the high cost and toxicity issues of current industrial catalysts, further enhancing PDH's potential advantages.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a crucial component in various chemical productions, faces growing demand that conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products. This makes PDH a viable alternative, capable of addressing the limitations of traditional processes in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a key technology. PDH processes, operating at high temperatures, face hurdles due to the toxicity of chromium-based catalysts and the high cost of platinum, limiting industry growth. The urgent need for new catalysts is met by cobalt-based alternatives, promising for PDH, with cobalt's earth abundance ensuring long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, easy retrofitting of existing facilities, and higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high conversion rates and selectivity for propylene, minimizing byproducts. This results in a more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable production method compared to traditional oil-based processes, which often have lower yields and require complex separation steps. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced dependency on oil make it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from shale gas, ensuring feedstock availability. PDH achieves high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, enhancing process efficiency. Zinc-based catalysts, non-toxic and cost-effective, are improved with Ni to boost catalytic activity and stability. This technology specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a crucial industrial raw material for various products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have low selectivity and high CO2 emissions. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features advanced catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which enhance catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite thermodynamic equilibrium limitations, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal conversion rates. Increasing propane conversion through temperature adjustments, pressure reduction, and H2 partial pressure lowering enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring practical performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the abundant shale gas feedstock, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity towards olefins, particularly in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields over conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH environmentally friendly and cost-effective.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a superior propylene production method. PDH utilizes widely available propane as feedstock, operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, consuming less energy and potentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproduct formation, offering high product selectivity and improved efficiency over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources (4). It offers a simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology (6). PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. It addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding deep oxidation issues common in oxidative dehydrogenation, and providing a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH, particularly with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, indicates efforts to enhance PDH's efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "The growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, primarily the Oleflex and Catofin methods, offer promise but face challenges due to the high cost of Pt catalysts and the toxicity of Cr catalysts. Developing cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is essential for PDH's further development, addressing the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, providing a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane as a feedstock, offering greater sustainability and cost-effectiveness. PDH exhibits higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion to propylene with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology's ability to turn low-value propane into value-added propylene, while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits, makes it the most promising method for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It excels by producing propylene exclusively, enhancing product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective. Propylene demand is projected to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, underscoring the significance of PDH's efficiency and selectivity in meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity olefins, specifically propylene, unlike conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. It demonstrates improved process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly through the use of the CoSiBeta catalyst, which exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity for propylene production. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, PDH aims to address challenges of product selectivity and environmental impact by designing green and cost-effective catalysts with high reactivity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing key challenges. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, avoids overoxidation issues, and offers superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The active Co species, tuned by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the challenges of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), which simplifies the process and enhances efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and competitive edge make it a superior choice over traditional methods, directly addressing the challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic benefits by converting low-cost propane into propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. It directly converts abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, improving feedstock availability. PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, making it a competitive alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods. It directly converts propane into propylene, addressing limitations in feedstock availability and providing a shorter production route. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures that promote side reactions, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency. Unlike oil-based cracking, PDH uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. Traditionally, large-scale production from naphtha crackers balanced the industrial demand for ethylene and propylene, but the availability of ethylene from ethane cracking in natural gas and shale gas has disrupted this balance. PDH addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a viable on-purpose method for propylene production. It is recognized as the most efficient process to meet the large demand for propylene, highlighting its role in the current industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene over by-products. Its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. PDH is a non-oxidative process gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It is considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking. The development of non-noble metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, is essential for PDH's activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price gap between propane and propylene. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle to meet growing demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without relying on dwindling oil reserves, making it an effective solution in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and scarce naphtha. PDH's single-step conversion of propane to propylene boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use compared to multi-step processes. Its modular design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more sustainable and cost-effective choice, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its operation at high temperatures, which is essential for achieving high yields in the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods by utilizing high-performance catalysts with activity, stability, and selectivity, meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and potentially utilizing CO2. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, avoids coke and overoxidation issues, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, needs improvement in propene yield. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research and development in lower energy PDH routes could transform propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. It utilizes cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it a preferred choice in the current industrial context.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route for propylene production, offering an alternative to non-petroleum based propylene. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% and a STY of 24 at 853 K, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, demonstrating PDH's efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior alternative for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for stable and cost-effective light alkanes like propane. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often struggle to meet demand. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH's benefits include improved feedstock flexibility, enhanced process efficiency, and better product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability compared to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. PDH uses abundant propane, derived from natural gas, reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks. It is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher product selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources to reduce dependence on oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in conventional methods, contributing to process efficiency and product selectivity. These catalysts also provide competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, further enhancing PDH's advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as the most promising method for production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, a key industrial component, saw a demand of around 116 million tons in 2020. While techniques like MTP and WGSR have been considered, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have further promoted the conversion of low-valued propane, enhancing its utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering enhanced feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process that boosts efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional naphtha cracking and heavy oil catalytic cracking. The development of a selective and durable PDH catalyst further improves process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges in the process.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained attention for propylene production, especially with increased propane supply from shale gas exploration. This highlights its advantage in utilizing abundant feedstocks. However, supported platinum-based catalysts, while active, are prone to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to improve process efficiency. Despite challenges, PDH offers a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an attractive alternative for propene production, particularly due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show promise with good onstream stability and high selectivity, suggesting PDH may offer process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. The development of these catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a potentially more direct and efficient route for propene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products. Conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet demands due to fossil energy consumption. PDH directly addresses these challenges, offering a more efficient and selective process for propylene production, making it a key focus in the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing propylene demand and shale-gas reserves, PDH technology is gaining attention. Conventional PDH processes, like Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt, prompting a search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising alternative, offering long-term utility due to their effectiveness in PDH and the earth's abundance of cobalt.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, easy retrofitting of existing facilities, and superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods in light of growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable, making it a sustainable choice.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, thanks to shale gas and abundant natural gas. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic solution for propene production, addressing global demand. It outperforms conventional methods by offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, thanks to zinc-based catalysts enhanced with Ni for improved activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process targets propylene production, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. With fracking technology, PDH benefits from cheap propane-rich shale gas feedstocks. PDH factories' adaptability and the growing propylene market, coupled with the price difference between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features advanced catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, which enhance catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, gaining prominence in recent decades, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its atom-economic nature, where one mole of propane yields one mole of each product, is a key advantage. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is offset by its potential to reduce costs through increased propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are essential for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and low by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to other pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency advantages over traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene compared to conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from various feedstocks, making it more environmentally friendly and direct. PDH's higher selectivity results in higher yields and lower production costs, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from sources like shale gas. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. PDH's use of Pt-based catalysts boosts propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, making PDH a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas production. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation, PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, indicates continuous efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, primarily Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, address challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, providing a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its higher process efficiency and product selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock. Unlike traditional methods, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher process efficiency and selectivity. This sustainable and cost-effective option is particularly advantageous in regions with shale gas resources, meeting the growing global demand for propylene with minimal environmental impact and maximized economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly yielding propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, making feedstock plentiful and cost-effective. As propylene demand is projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency and product purity are crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The steady rise in demand for chemical building blocks, except in the Eurozone, and the cost-effective extraction of shale gas have significantly reduced gas costs. This has led to a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., resulting in a drop in propylene supply and a rise in its price. PDH's profitability is enhanced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose technique, yielding a specific olefin rather than a mixture of products, and producing olefins of polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing the abundant propane feedstock effectively. The CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. PDH aims to address these challenges by developing a green, low-priced catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The active Co species' state, tuned by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional production methods. Enhanced by the abundance and lower cost of propane due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This addresses the limitations of traditional methods, which relied on naphtha and coal, now insufficient for growing demand. PDH benefits from abundant light alkanes sourced from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady and cost-effective supply. Its lower production costs make PDH a competitive choice in the market.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. This method improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. This highlights the need for developing more efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe operating conditions for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role is evident in new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent advancements include eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process to meet the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges posed by conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability, as the balance in ethylene and propylene production disrupted by natural gas and shale gas necessitates on-purpose methods for propylene production. PDH emerges as a solution, specifically tackling these issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high process efficiency with a notable conversion rate of propane to propylene, and high selectivity minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation offers flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. PDH is a non-oxidative process gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It's an efficient and low-cost alternative to conventional methods, with a focus on developing non-noble metal catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, for high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by ensuring feedstock availability, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity, thus meeting the growing global demand for propylene without relying on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. Its modular plant design allows for flexible and localized production, making it economically and environmentally viable, especially in regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing challenges in conventional production methods. Its importance lies in the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, essential for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, which requires high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields, utilizing active Pt or Cr catalysts, and addresses conventional propylene production challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative methods, and ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, minimizes overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, requires improved catalysts for better CO2 activation. Future PDH catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and explore more abundant elements. Research on low-temperature CO2 activation is crucial. PDH, with green propane, can revolutionize propene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. It utilizes widely available and cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH is eco-friendly and cost-efficient, making it an attractive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative catalyst, overcoming the scarcity and toxicity issues of current commercial PDH catalysts. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving high propylene selectivity and regeneration capability, demonstrating the potential of zinc-based catalysts for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using catalysts with high activity, selectivity, and stability, efficiently produces propene, achieving 90% selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, addressing global demand and outperforming conventional methods in feedstock utilization, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity by about three times, matching selectivity, under industrial conditions, demonstrating PDH's advantages in addressing global propylene demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock for a stable and cost-effective source of propane. It directly transforms propane to propylene efficiently, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods that often result in energy-intensive processes and a demand-supply gap for propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology in today's industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by potentially offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH can utilize propane from shale gas, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. It meets the increasing demand for propylene with higher yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene. This makes PDH a sustainable and efficient alternative to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking which is energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH, utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it reduces reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional methods, contributing to process efficiency and product selectivity with competitive performance and low cost.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional methods. It's favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance propane utilization, reinforcing PDH's position as a key technology in meeting propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods by enhancing feedstock availability, potentially lowering production costs, and directly producing propylene with higher efficiency and selectivity. The focus on developing an advanced catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting the need for improved catalysts in PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses global propylene demand by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration that can lead to irreversible sintering under high-temperature and oxidizing conditions. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to avoid oxychlorination regeneration. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas resources highlights its advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand cannot be met by steam cracking. This suggests PDH may offer process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. Its key advantages include the use of abundant propane as feedstock and reduced by-products, making it more efficient and selective. Unlike naphtha steam cracking, PDH ensures a steady supply of propylene, a crucial chemical for various industries, without the constraints faced by traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a key solution, addressing limitations of conventional production methods. PDH processes, like Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges due to the toxicity of Cr and the high cost of Pt, prompting a search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts show promise, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for PDH, making it a promising technology for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its high selectivity in converting widely available propane directly into propylene, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking methods. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane and butane, produced by various petrochemical processes, as feedstocks, and can be easily integrated into existing facilities, addressing investment concerns. It excels in propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a leading solution for meeting the global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, achieves higher yields with lower byproduct formation, and is more energy-efficient, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. This addresses conventional methods' limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures pose challenges for selectivity and catalyst stability, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation. However, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by moderate Ni in ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap propane feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology, and its factories' adaptability enhances profitability, given the growing propylene market and price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which exhibit high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and catalysts enable near-ideal results. As a high energy-consuming process, increasing propane conversion per pass reduces costs. PDH specifically tackles conventional production challenges by utilizing abundant propane feedstock, achieving high propylene yields with low by-product formation, and improving process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to methanol-to-olefins (MTO), Fischer-Tropsch to olefins (FTO), and alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) using O2, CO2, and N2O. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's use of alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It boasts higher selectivity to propene than other methods, leading to higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Utilizing widely available propane, PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene offers high selectivity and efficiency, operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas production. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. PDH processes, like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, operate under various pressures, enhancing efficiency. However, catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, such as Catofin and Oleflex, are being explored for propylene production, despite drawbacks like high Pt cost and Cr environmental impact. Renewed interest in PDH stems from growing global propylene demand and low shale gas-derived propane costs. Indium-based catalysts are highlighted for their potential high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH employs two primary technologies: the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. The high cost of Pt and toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, providing a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs. Its single-reactor design enhances process efficiency and sustainability, making it a cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offering high process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, especially in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted conversion process results in higher propane conversion and propylene selectivity, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, making it a cleaner and more economic choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for direct propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, enhancing feedstock affordability. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, and its on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods which produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of the CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes demonstrate improved efficiency and selectivity over conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas for feedstock, its ability to prevent overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and its high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. Shale gas extraction provides cheap propane, overoxidation is inhibited in PDH unlike in ODH, and PDH offers superior product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in product selectivity and process efficiency for propylene production, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, enhancing PDH's performance in recycling reactions. However, specific advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability are not detailed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its single-feedstock (propane) and single-product (propylene) process, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant, cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional natural gas, like shale gas, ensuring a steady supply. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive alternative to conventional methods, which struggle to meet growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields but faces challenges due to its endothermic nature requiring high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity, making PDH advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and cheaper propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, improving feedstock availability and process efficiency. This direct conversion bypasses intermediate steps, reducing undesired side reactions and enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency advantages. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. As a commercially available technology, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, particularly improving catalyst efficiency with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions, is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role is evident in new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts with CrOx or Pt have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering costs. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and containing Ru or Rh NP, offer a solution for high activity in dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional production methods, making it an emerging and promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production due to its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, high conversion and selectivity rates for propylene, modular implementation for flexible capacity, and lower capital costs compared to large-scale petrochemical plants. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH, addressing the limitations of high-cost platinum and toxic chromium(VI) catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging the abundant propane supply and significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional methods which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH's use of propane ensures sufficient propylene production without reliance on diminishing oil reserves.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plant implementation allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's abundant feedstock, high efficiency, and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to meet growing demand through the use of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation necessitates high temperatures for high yields, making PDH a promising solution that addresses the limitations of conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and minimizing overoxidation. PDH's environmental and economic advantages, including high atom economy and reduced toxicity, make it superior to steam cracking and MTO. While ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 show potential, they face issues with selectivity and low intrinsic activity, respectively. Future catalyst design should focus on improving selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing more abundant elements. With further research, PDH can transform propylene production, aligning with sustainability goals.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency. It utilizes widely available, cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising technology for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging industrial route, but the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising alternative. Zinc-based catalysts, like Zn@S-1, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene while overcoming limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. Catalysts, designed without non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's advantages, achieving three times higher propene productivity with similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity benefits, making it an emerging technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially achieve higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It offers an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. PDH specifically addresses challenges by providing a route to produce propylene without relying on specific feedstocks, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, addresses propylene demand by improving on conventional methods. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and selectively produces propylene. Unlike traditional oil-based feedstocks, propane from natural gas ensures better availability. PDH's direct conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, making it a sustainable and efficient choice for the growing need for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its economic and environmental benefits in propylene production, offering a superior alternative to traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. It utilizes vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising production method. In 2020, the demand reached approximately 116 million tons. PDH, alongside MTP and WGSR, has gained attention, but its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, underscoring PDH's role in meeting the demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity compared to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The development of a selective and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts process efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity than conventional methods. It excels in CH bond activation, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting a key challenge in the technology's efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses challenges in propylene production by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, particularly when demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show promise for PDH, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods. The development of these catalysts is crucial due to the disadvantages of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a crucial chemical for various products, faces growing demand that conventional production methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet due to declining fossil energy. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is emerging as a solution, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. This makes PDH attractive for sustainable propylene production, addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Conventional methods face challenges due to feedstock limitations, efficiency, and selectivity issues. PDH, operating at high temperatures, uses catalysts like Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3, but their toxicity and cost restrict industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes. It offers more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, easily sourced from petrochemical processes, and its compatibility with existing facilities, requiring minimal investment for retrofitting. It excels in higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance (Quote 2). It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking (Quotes 1, 3, and 4), PDH's effectiveness is enhanced by the active site isolation strategy (Quote 5), tackling selectivity and catalyst stability issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, addressing the global demand and challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes propane from shale gas, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, though cost-effective and non-toxic, have limitations in activity and stability. The addition of Ni to ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances both catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, extremely cheap. PDH factories' adaptability and the significant price difference between propylene and propane, coupled with growing market demand, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane to address feedstock availability. It features high-efficiency catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which enhance catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity and yield, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global propylene demand. Its endothermic nature limits conversion, but optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures availability and high conversion rates, offering efficiency and selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene than conventional methods. It utilizes abundant propane from various feedstocks, including natural gas and petrochemical processes, addressing feedstock availability. PDH's direct process results in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, offering flexibility. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH provide high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas and shale gas production provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, contrasting with conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC of naphtha, which are more complex and costly. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, although deactivation and stability issues remain challenges. PDH avoids the issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts to improve PDH efficiency, highlighting the technology's promise in meeting propylene production needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are pivotal in meeting the demand. However, the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge for further PDH process advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant propane as feedstock, higher product selectivity, lower energy consumption, and simplified process. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering higher yields and potentially lower operating costs compared to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which have limitations in feedstock availability and efficiency. The single-reactor design of PDH reduces capital and operating costs, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH utilizes abundant propane from shale gas, converting it directly into propylene with high efficiency and selectivity. This makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with shale gas resources. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene minimizes by-product production, offering a cleaner and more targeted process that meets increasing propylene demand while reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, making feedstock more affordable and abundant. PDH's proprietary process exclusively produces propylene, enhancing selectivity and efficiency. Regulating reaction conditions minimizes side reactions, further boosting propylene yield. With a projected 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's advantages are crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. PDH's on-purpose technique yields exclusive olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH indicate superior process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and fast deactivation. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene reflects PDH's aim to tackle product selectivity and environmental impact challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas for feedstock, its ability to prevent overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and its high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes. Shale gas extraction provides cheap propane, while PDH's selectivity offers a superior product compared to hybrid MTO and FTO outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances Co-based catalyst performance in propane dehydrogenation, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods, which include high energy consumption and low selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from shale gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and improved selectivity make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet market demand due to reliance on naphtha and coal cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting abundant and cheaper propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, an important raw material. This process, being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requires high temperatures for satisfactory yield but avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst activity and stability. PDH improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the depletion of petroleum resources. As a commercially available process, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, offering an alternative to conventional methods. However, the high-temperature requirements for catalytic activity in PDH lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering leading to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed, requiring metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses challenges faced by conventional production methods, including issues with feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As an on-purpose non-oxidative process, PDH has gained attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking (FCC), which struggle to meet market demand due to the depletion of petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without relying on depleting resources, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on costly and less available naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. Its modular plant implementation allows for flexible and localized production, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option that addresses the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, as it addresses the challenges of conventional methods. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation necessitates high-temperature conditions for optimal yields, highlighting the critical role of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It leverages renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, while ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents overoxidation, improving propene yield. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 offers environmental benefits but requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, utilizing more abundant elements, to advance green propane dehydrogenation for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available, cheap propane from shale gas, offering high propylene selectivity and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it an attractive alternative, especially given the significant gap between propylene supply and demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing challenges in conventional methods. The study highlights the development of Zn-based catalysts due to the scarcity and toxicity of current PDH catalyst components. Zn@S-1 catalysts show good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating potential for industrial PDH processes. This focus on alternative catalysts aims to overcome limitations of conventional methods, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, showcasing PDH's efficiency and environmental friendliness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. A new ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 under industrial conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is more efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature of conventional methods and the supply-demand gap for propene. PDH's non-oxidative route offers process efficiency and product selectivity, making it an emerging and promising technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially achieve higher propylene yields and selectivity, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, improving on energy efficiency, reducing CO2 and NOx emissions, and offering higher product selectivity for propylene. Unlike traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH's reliance on propane ensures better feedstock availability, especially as propane can be sourced from natural gas. PDH's energy efficiency and lower emissions make it a more sustainable option, while its direct conversion of propane to propylene with minimal byproducts enhances product selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with traditional methods that consume substantial energy and emit high CO2. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it uses propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining conventional methods. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing further promote propane conversion through abundant shale gas extraction, enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active and selective PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the heavy demand in the feedstock market. It offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. PDH efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. Notably, it tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, have limitations in stability and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are sought after to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage increased propane supply from shale gas exploration highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, shows promise for efficient and selective propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, making PDH an attractive alternative, especially for meeting the growing demand for propene where steam cracking cannot further increase production. The development of novel catalysts for PDH aims to overcome drawbacks of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation. Propylene, a vital precursor for various chemicals, faces production limitations with conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. PDH directly addresses these challenges, offering a more efficient and selective process to meet increasing demands.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted PDH as a promising technology. Conventional methods, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, limiting their scalability. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH offer a solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, making it advantageous in addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, produced by various petrochemical processes. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, avoiding significant investment. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges of conventional methods, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, ensuring higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, is pivotal for meeting global propylene demand. It offers cost-effective and non-toxic zinc-based catalysts, superior to Pt and Cr-based alternatives. By introducing Ni into ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite, PDH achieves enhanced catalytic activity and stability. This technology specifically addresses conventional production challenges by ensuring feedstock availability, high conversion rates, and selectivity to propene under mild conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH's on-purpose process specifically targets propylene, avoiding hybrid hydrocarbon products. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap. PDH factories' adaptability and the growing propylene market, coupled with the price difference between propylene and propane, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements. It addresses feedstock availability issues. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global propylene demand. Its endothermic nature is limited by thermodynamics, yet optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely match ideal outcomes. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Reaction conditions, including temperature and pressure, are crucial for efficiency and selectivity, aligning with commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures availability, high conversion rates, and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, serving as an effective supplement to meet growing global olefin demands. PDH's process efficiency and ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks address challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency faced by conventional methods like SC and FCC. This makes PDH a promising solution for propylene production, specifically tailored to overcome limitations of traditional techniques.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from propane, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it an attractive catalytic route compared to other methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging widely available propane from sources like shale gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The use of propane directly for propylene production minimizes unwanted byproducts, while lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions. This direct conversion offers superior product selectivity and addresses the limitations of conventional production methods, making PDH a more sustainable and efficient choice for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. It utilizes propane, abundant due to shale gas and natural gas production, as a feedstock. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Despite challenges with catalyst deactivation and stability, efforts are being made to improve catalyst resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, such as those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies offer potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to improve PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, such as Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, face challenges due to the high cost of Pt and environmental concerns with Cr. Developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, addressing conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene without the need for steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity, lower energy consumption, and a simplified process due to its single-reactor design, which reduces costs. This technology's enhanced efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective choice, particularly in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a viable alternative to traditional methods that use heavier hydrocarbons and produce a broader range of products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting abundant shale gas feedstock, specifically propane, into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant shale gas. PDH's targeted conversion process results in cleaner production with minimal by-products, better meeting the increasing demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and selective method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing enables large-scale extraction of propane-rich shale gas condensates, making feedstock abundant and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without hybrid products, enhances selectivity. With a forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting global needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The demand for chemical building blocks, including propylene, has risen steadily in major markets, except the Eurozone, affected by economic downturns. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The abundance of cheap natural gas liquids, particularly ethane, has driven a shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., impacting propylene supply and prices. This scenario has created opportunities for PDH, which is highly profitable due to the price differential between propane and propylene. PDH's on-purpose technique yields a specific olefin, propylene, with polymer-quality purity, offering a significant advantage over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into value-added propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of the CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides abundant and cost-effective propane for PDH, overcoming feedstock limitations. PDH curbs overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes PDH from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "In response to the growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology, particularly when utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers enhanced performance with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high propylene selectivity, addressing conventional methods' issues of high energy consumption and low selectivity. PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness are enhanced by the abundance of propane, a result of advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, making it a promising solution to meet growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single-feedstock process that simplifies production and enhances efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower costs and single-product output make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet market demand due to reliance on naphtha and coal cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It enhances feedstock availability and product selectivity, despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures that can lead to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane to high-value propene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand by efficiently converting abundant propane into propene with high selectivity. This process avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH utilizes propane, an important chemical raw material, ensuring feedstock availability and bypassing intermediate steps to reduce undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and direct method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative route not reliant on scarce petroleum resources. Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH directly converts propane to propylene. However, its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature requires high temperatures, facilitating side reactions that reduce propylene selectivity and cause catalyst deactivation, presenting a significant challenge for industrial production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based PDH catalysts have health risks, high costs, and deactivation issues, with Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds posing environmental concerns. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, requiring metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene. It specifically addresses the challenges of conventional methods by improving feedstock availability and process efficiency. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking has disrupted the balance, necessitating on-purpose methods for propylene. PDH emerges as an efficient process capable of meeting large propylene demands, highlighting its advantages over conventional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-products. Its modular design allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. PDH is a non-oxidative process, gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It's considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are promising for PDH, addressing limitations of noble metals.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by utilizing abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. This technology can be implemented in smaller, modular plants, offering flexibility and lower operating costs, making PDH a more sustainable and cost-effective option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. The endothermic nature of propane dehydrogenation requires high temperatures for high yields, a critical factor in meeting the growing global demand for propene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and its ability to use renewable green propane, addressing feedstock sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing the need for regeneration. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, offers high selectivity but risks overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally favorable, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low-temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy PDH routes using green propane could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of propylene-based products. Its advantages include the use of abundant, cheap propane from shale gas, high selectivity to propylene, and eco-friendly, cost-efficient processes. PDH's ability to produce valuable hydrogen as a by-product further enhances its appeal.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, as a promising alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, demonstrating high potential for industrial PDH processes, thus highlighting PDH's advantages in feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability through innovative catalyst design, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion. The catalyst, encapsulated in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, controls ZnO NP size and prevents loss at high temperatures, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental advantages and enhanced productivity. The use of a ZnO-based catalyst in PDH processes demonstrates about three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a viable solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for stable and cost-effective light alkanes. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient than conventional methods, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps, making it an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially offer higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, improving availability compared to naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient and produces fewer CO2 and NOx emissions, making it environmentally friendly. With higher product selectivity for propylene, PDH directly converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, unlike complex traditional methods. This technology is crucial for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking by requiring less energy and producing fewer CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing reliance on oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product quality with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020, underscoring the need for effective production methods. Among alternatives like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental impact, making it the preferred route for high-value propylene. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered propane supply from shale gas, enhancing PDH's feedstock advantage.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene. PDH offers key advantages over conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, including better feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and improved product selectivity. By utilizing cheap and abundant shale gas, PDH can reduce production costs and simplify the process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The focus on developing a highly active, selective, and durable PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensures longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods. Despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts, including short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, PDH presents a promising solution to enhance feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration are desired to enhance process efficiency. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas, a plentiful feedstock, highlights its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional methods. These advancements in catalysts could offer a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane, potentially improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, conventional production methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle due to fossil energy consumption and inability to meet demands. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant feedstock and minimizing by-products, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing demand for propylene and the abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. PDH processes, operating at high temperatures, face challenges due to the toxicity of chromium and the high cost of platinum in catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise, with the earth's abundance of cobalt indicating long-term utility for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive conventional processes. It offers greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, which can be sourced from various petrochemical processes. It offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods. PDH can be easily integrated into existing facilities, making it a cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency. It minimizes byproducts, ensuring a more sustainable and economically viable option compared to traditional methods like steam cracking, which have lower yields and require complex separation processes. PDH's high selectivity towards propylene streamlines production, making it a promising solution for meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Despite PDH's energy intensity and high-temperature requirements, which challenge selectivity and catalyst stability, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the global demand for propylene, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane as feedstock. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by nickel, ensure cost-effectiveness and improved catalytic activity and stability, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap propane-rich shale gas, thanks to fracking, and its adaptable factories enhance profitability, given the price gap between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which offer high activity, stability, and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane's single-pass conversion. Suitable reaction conditions are pivotal for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH addresses conventional production challenges by efficiently utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yields with minimal by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. PDH's thermodynamic properties and high endothermic nature provide process efficiency benefits, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods. This technology specifically utilizes alkanes as feedstocks, abundant in shale gas, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in increased yields and reduced production costs, making it an attractive solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH's higher product selectivity and lower byproduct formation make it a superior choice.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes propane, which is abundant and economical due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, making it more energy-efficient and cost-effective. The process avoids issues of deep oxidation and production of COx, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making PDH a more efficient and selective process for propylene production. However, challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, which need addressing to fully leverage PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high costs and environmental concerns, PDH technologies are being optimized through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, which offer high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, demonstrating efforts to enhance PDH's efficiency and address conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH employs two primary technologies: the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. However, the high cost of Pt and the toxicity of Cr catalysts limit PDH's development. Addressing these challenges, the development of cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, which have limitations. PDH uses abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering stable supply compared to conventional methods. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in regions with ample propane supply, addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, especially from abundant shale gas resources. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH directly uses propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective option is particularly advantageous in regions with shale gas, meeting the growing global demand for propylene while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly yielding propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, making feedstock more affordable. PDH's efficiency and selectivity address conventional method limitations, crucial as propylene demand is forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The advent of cost-effective shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing has led to a shift from naphtha to ethane as a feedstock, resulting in a drop in propylene supply and a rise in its price. PDH's profitability is significantly influenced by the price difference between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. Additionally, PDH is an on-purpose technique, yielding high-purity propylene exclusively, unlike conventional methods that produce a mixture of products. Industrial dehydrogenation processes are optimized for polymer-quality olefin production.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. While specific advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability are not detailed, PDH offers a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The development of shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction has made raw material propane more abundant and cheaper, enhancing PDH's cost-effectiveness and efficiency in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    