Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a superior method for propylene production, tackling the limitations of conventional naphtha and coal cracking processes that struggle to meet escalating demand. Leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas, PDH offers a streamlined process with propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the exclusive product, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. This approach ensures a steady supply, lower production costs, and addresses the challenges of traditional methods, making PDH a competitive choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production due to its high activity and yields. However, the endothermic process requiring high temperatures causes coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts with tunable properties enhance efficiency and selectivity, overcoming these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane to propene, addressing challenges in propylene production. It enhances feedstock availability, improves process efficiency, and product selectivity by directly converting propane with high selectivity, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation. This method utilizes propane, an important chemical raw material, bypassing intermediate steps to reduce undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a commercially viable and cost-effective solution for the growing global demand for propylene, directly converting propane to propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with dwindling petroleum resources. Despite being endothermic and prone to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, PDH offers a shorter and more economical route to propylene production. Developing catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions remains a key challenge for enhancing PDH's efficiency in industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers environmental advantages over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas, addressing feedstock limitations. Its role in propylene production is expanding with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have issues: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. It specifically addresses the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene production by efficiently utilizing available feedstocks. Recognized as the most efficient process, PDH ensures high propylene output, making it a viable alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs, making it a cost-effective alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration, and vanadium-based catalysts show promise for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, effectively addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It ensures sufficient propylene supply without dependence on dwindling petroleum resources, making it a viable and advantageous alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's sustainability and cost-effectiveness. Its single-step conversion boosts efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. PDH's modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for meeting the global propylene demand due to its high activity, stability, and selectivity in catalysts, essential for achieving high yields at high temperatures in the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over Pt or Cr catalysts, which avoid coke formation, a challenge for conventional methods. Utilizing renewable green propane, PDH aligns with sustainability goals. ODH-O2, employing boron catalysts, curbs overoxidation, enhancing propene yield. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires improved catalysts for higher propene yields. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity and CO2 activation, utilizing abundant elements. Research and development of lower energy routes to propene via green propane dehydrogenation could revolutionize the manufacturing landscape of this key chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, efficiently addresses the growing global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity to propylene and valuable hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient process is a promising alternative to conventional methods, bridging the supply-demand gap.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, addresses global demand for propylene by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, developed to overcome the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium, exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity. It achieves 97% propylene selectivity, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes. Zinc, as an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, offers an environmentally friendly alternative for PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high selectivity and conversion rates, which address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It achieves approximately 90% propene selectivity at significant propane conversion, demonstrating its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology presents a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, mitigating environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's environmental compatibility, showcasing three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under relevant conditions, directly addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas for a stable, cost-effective feedstock, offering superior process and product selectivity. Its non-oxidative conversion route boosts efficiency, addressing energy consumption and demand-supply gaps, making it a leading propylene production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. By selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Its reliance on propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option, with potential for higher yields and selectivity for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, offering a high-value alternative to steam cracking and FCC. Its key advantages include feedstock flexibility, higher efficiency, and selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand. PDH's independence from specific feedstocks and superior efficiency and selectivity address conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as feedstock, efficiently meets growing propylene demand with lower energy consumption and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. It addresses feedstock availability by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas, improves process efficiency, and has higher product selectivity for propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable alternative for global propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. It achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, minimizing coke formation and sintering, effectively addressing catalyst deactivation issues faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces reliance on oil-based feedstocks and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability. This enhances efficiency and selectivity, making PDH competitive with lower costs and reduced toxicity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as a superior production method. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, unlike conventional methods. Propylene's demand hit 116 million tons in 2020, underscoring its importance in industrial applications. While alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) exist, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the most promising pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, making PDH an even more viable solution for utilizing abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, directly produces propylene, addressing growing demand. It offers improved feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced process efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods. Developing a superior catalyst could further amplify these advantages.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation and reactive longevity, along with the use of Pt-based catalysts, enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of traditional methods. This makes PDH environmentally friendly and a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, yet Pt-based catalysts, central to the process, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing efficiency and purity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, offers advantages in propylene production. Platinum-based catalysts are active but prone to deactivation, necessitating regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion are desired. PDH's renewed interest, driven by abundant shale gas resources, highlights its potential in utilizing these resources efficiently for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propene production, offering a more direct and efficient route compared to conventional methods, especially as demand for propylene outstrips steam cracking capacity. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts for PDH show good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a standout solution for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products. It's particularly advantageous as conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle with growing demands and high fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, especially with cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution. Conventional methods using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts are limited by Cr toxicity and Pt's high cost. Cobalt's earth abundance in PDH catalysts ensures long-term sustainability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable alternative to meet the growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene with high efficiency and selectivity. It outperforms traditional methods by avoiding energy-intensive processes, thus reducing environmental impact and enhancing resource use.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by utilizing cost-effective propane, achieving superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency over conventional methods. It optimizes existing facilities, reducing investment, making it a viable solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, meets global propylene demand with high conversion and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional methods, making PDH a sustainable choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, driven by the shift to abundant light alkanes from naphtha, offers enhanced feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity in propylene production. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements that can cause cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively boosts alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, overcoming key challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas propane, offers high propene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, provide cost-effective, nontoxic alternatives to conventional Pt and Cr-based catalysts. PDH specifically addresses conventional production method limitations by ensuring feedstock availability, improving process efficiency, and enhancing product selectivity, making it a leading solution for meeting escalating global propene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods that are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas, making it highly profitable due to the significant price difference between propylene and propane and the growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas, facilitated by hydraulic fracturing advancements, to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, exemplified by ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, offer high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane into high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, optimized conditions and catalysts enable PDH to closely achieve ideal conversion rates. Its high energy consumption is mitigated by strategies to increase propane conversion, reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are crucial for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity with minimal by-product formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. Its use of shale gas ensures strategic feedstock availability. PDH's high efficiency and selectivity address conventional methods' limitations, excelling in thermodynamic properties and selective activation of CH bonds, ensuring high olefin selectivity. This makes PDH a superior choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable, direct, and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane, boasting higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, thereby tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with fewer byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH effectively activate paraffinic CH bonds, boosting propylene selectivity. The direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts. PDH's lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The abundance of propane, a prime feedstock for PDH, is bolstered by the recent surge in natural gas production. PtSn-based catalysts effectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation, although challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and stability. PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Ongoing research into alternative catalysts, notably indium-based ones, aims to enhance PDH efficiency and address limitations of conventional production methods, focusing on high stability and selectivity. Efforts include exploring Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts to improve PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant shale-gas reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH's development is challenged by the high cost of Pt metal and toxicity of Cr catalysts, limitations that conventional methods also face. Addressing these issues by developing cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial for PDH's advancement, making it a more viable alternative.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Its efficiency and selectivity address challenges faced by conventional methods, particularly in regions with ample propane supply.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant shale gas propane into propylene, offers enhanced feedstock availability, superior to conventional naphtha or oil-based methods. It boasts higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with reduced by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective approach is ideal for shale gas-rich regions, meeting global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is critical for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical. It directly produces propylene with high selectivity, unlike conventional methods that create hybrid products. Hydraulic fracturing has made propane feedstock abundant and cost-effective, overcoming limitations of traditional production. PDH's superior efficiency and selectivity, coupled with a forecasted 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand until 2035, highlight its importance in the petrochemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. Enhanced shale gas extraction via hydraulic fracturing (quote 2) has slashed gas costs (quote 3), favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has curtailed propylene supply, hiking its price (quote 5), and PDH's profitability is amplified by the propane-propylene price gap (quote 6). PDH's on-purpose technique (quote 7) yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods, making it a superior choice.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability and improving process efficiency and product selectivity. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods, which struggle with high costs and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green and affordable PDH catalyst highlights PDH's aim to overcome challenges in product selectivity and environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas for feedstock. It boosts efficiency by preventing overoxidation and ensures superior product quality with high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in C3H6 selectivity over 95% and has good regeneration stability, tackling product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. Its anti-coke stability, attributed to the state of active Co species and surface acid property, makes PDH a viable solution for propylene production amidst growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high propylene selectivity and cost-effectiveness, directly addressing the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a promising and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources for a steady, cost-effective supply. Its single-feed/single-product process enhances efficiency, making it a competitive choice over traditional methods, directly addressing the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using advanced catalysts, is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene. Despite being an endothermic process requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and affect catalyst stability, PDH employs nanostructured catalysts to enhance propyl intermediate adsorption, improving process efficiency and selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing propane, avoiding hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation issues that can reduce catalyst activity, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct, economical method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It bypasses dwindling petroleum resources by converting propane directly, as highlighted by commercial processes like Catofin and Oleflex. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to side reactions and affect propylene selectivity, PDH remains a viable solution. Developing more efficient catalysts under severe conditions is crucial for enhancing propylene production and overcoming industrial-scale challenges.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recently developed eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, address these issues by showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its process efficiency and product selectivity, effectively addressing the disrupted balance in propylene production caused by ethylene availability from natural gas and shale gas cracking. PDH is recognized as the most efficient process to meet propylene demand, tackling issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for feedstock, ensuring cost-effectiveness. Its modular design offers flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, making it a superior alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap between propane and propylene, efficiently addresses the limitations of conventional propylene production methods. Unlike steam cracking and FCC, which struggle with depleting oil resources, PDH ensures a sufficient propylene supply, making it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective method for propylene production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures for high yields, highlights the importance of efficient catalysts, making PDH a promising method that addresses the limitations of conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It leverages renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and advances with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts for improved propene selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 shows environmental promise but requires enhanced activity. Future catalyst design should focus on abundant elements and low temperature CO2 activation, transforming propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by efficiently utilizing cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, offering eco-friendly and cost-effective production. It achieves high selectivity for propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. It overcomes conventional methods' limitations by offering non-petroleum based production. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. The Zn-4@S-1 catalyst demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages for propylene production, boasting high activity, selectivity, and stability in catalysts without noble metals. An innovative NP encapsulation in an NC layer controls ZnO NP size, preventing loss at high temperatures, and enhances PDH performance. This results in 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, effectively addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A novel ZnO-based catalyst in PDH demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for stable, cost-effective feedstock, directly converting propane to propylene. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, emerging as a solution to energy consumption and demand-supply gap issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional propylene production methods. PDH processes are more efficient and selective, converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. By utilizing shale gas resources, PDH achieves higher propylene yields and selectivity, selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering a viable alternative to conventional methods. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock for enhanced availability, achieving higher energy efficiency, and significantly reducing CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. Its direct conversion process offers superior product selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene, a critical chemical raw material, by offering a sustainable and targeted production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and environmentally friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock, reduces oil dependence and employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional catalysts, thereby enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a vital industrial component, spotlights propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). Its cost-effectiveness and environmental advantages make it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in utilizing abundant shale gas resources, as it converts low-valued propane into high-valued propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas reserves for propylene production, offering better feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Developing a superior catalyst could further improve PDH's efficiency and selectivity, solidifying its position as a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, addressing global demand by offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it an optimal choice for meeting the increasing global need for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a solution to the global propylene demand by enhancing the stability and selectivity issues of conventional Pt-based catalysts, making it a superior method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses feedstock availability and enhances propylene production. Its endothermic process, requiring high temperatures, faces challenges with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, improve process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a more direct and efficient route for propene production from propane, addressing the growing global demand. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity, particularly through the development of VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, which have good onstream stability and high selectivity. This makes PDH an attractive alternative, especially where steam cracking process demand cannot be further increased.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, amidst growing global propylene demand, stands out for its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, directly addressing limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. Its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity make it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and increased propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Conventional methods using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts face limitations due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, offer a viable alternative, enhancing PDH's potential for long-term utility.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane to produce propylene with high selectivity, offering superior resource efficiency and environmental benefits over traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It can be easily integrated into existing facilities, effectively addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane for high propylene conversion rates and selectivity, offering a more efficient and sustainable production method than traditional oil-based processes. Its reliance on widely available propane ensures a stable feedstock supply, while its energy efficiency and high yields make it a leading choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is driven by the shift to light alkanes, offering improved feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite energy intensity and high temperatures leading to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and non-toxic propylene production method, outperforming conventional techniques. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni boost catalytic activity and stability, achieving high propylene conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, effectively addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It addresses conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. Fracking technology has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, enhancing profitability given the growing propylene market and price difference between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, addressing a key challenge in propylene production. Utilizing efficient catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, demonstrating high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, making it a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process (Quote 3), converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing conventional production limitations. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and catalysts can approach ideal results (Quote 4). Strategies to increase single-pass propane conversion include raising temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures (Quote 7), reducing costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, balancing equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. PDH ensures feedstock availability, high conversion, and selectivity, making it a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like MTO, FTO, and ODH. Leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH serves as an effective supplement, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic reactions provide efficiency benefits, making it a superior choice for propylene production. By utilizing alkanes as feedstocks, PDH specifically tackles issues faced by traditional methods, ensuring high selectivity toward olefins.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher propene selectivity, which results in higher yields and lower costs, effectively addressing the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, yields high propylene with minimal byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts boost propylene selectivity by efficiently activating CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes byproducts, and lower temperatures and pressures reduce energy use and emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, capitalizing on abundant propane from natural gas and shale. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Commercial PDH processes, including Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use distinct catalysts and pressures, addressing challenges like catalyst deactivation and stability. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective and efficient process. The technology operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from the escalating global demand for propylene and low propane costs from shale gas. PDH offers advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Indium-based catalysts show promise for high stability and selectivity, enhancing PDH's potential. Ongoing research into various catalysts indicates the technology's capacity to improve process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant shale gas reserves, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin, emerges as a solution to conventional production challenges. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity in these processes limit PDH's potential, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process and reducing costs compared to conventional methods that rely on limited naphtha and heavy oil. This technology targets propane conversion to propylene, achieving higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting abundant low-value propane into high-value propylene, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution to meet global demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly targets propane to propylene conversion with higher efficiency and selectivity, minimizing by-products for a cleaner process. This technology is particularly advantageous in shale gas-rich regions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, leverages abundant shale gas condensates for cheaper feedstock, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. It produces only propylene, not hybrid products, addressing the growing global demand projected to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing slashed gas costs by 75% since 2005, favoring shale gas as a feedstock. This led to a U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price. PDH's profitability, bolstered by the propane-propylene price gap, aligns with current market conditions. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields olefins, optimized for polymer-quality purity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane into propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. The quest for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst highlights efforts to tackle environmental and cost challenges, underscoring PDH's advantages in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing product selectivity and process efficiency challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction. This makes PDH a promising, efficient, and cost-effective solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, surpassing conventional methods in addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a competitive solution for propylene production, leveraging the abundance of cheap light alkanes from unconventional gas sources. It uses propane as a single feedstock, simplifying the process and ensuring a steady supply, unlike conventional methods limited by feedstock availability. This efficiency and cost-effectiveness make PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity and yields. However, its endothermic nature requires high temperatures, impacting C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. It addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing propene demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. This method improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and minimizing undesired side reactions, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical. It directly converts propane to propylene, offering a commercially viable and less resource-dependent alternative. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, PDH's development, particularly in enhancing catalyst efficiency and stability, is crucial for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based cracking in propylene production. Its efficiency is evident in the construction of new plants. However, conventional CrOx or Pt-based catalysts have health risks and high costs. Recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, though needing metal oxide promotion and Ru/Rh NP support, address these challenges, showing potential in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, offering a solution to the disrupted balance in ethylene and propylene supply due to increased ethane cracking. It ensures adequate propylene supply, addressing conventional methods' limitations, and is the most efficient process to meet high demand, excelling in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of abundant shale gas, achieving high efficiency with a superior propane-to-propylene conversion rate and selectivity that minimizes by-product formation. Its modular nature offers flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH benefits from advancements in shale gas exploration, offering a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods. Research highlights the need for innovative catalysts, with vanadium-based options showing promise for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a viable solution for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane and the price gap to propylene, ensuring economic efficiency. It surpasses traditional methods like steam cracking and FCC by addressing feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet global propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas for propylene production, enhancing feedstock availability and reducing reliance on costly naphtha. It excels in efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, thus saving energy and costs compared to multi-step processes. PDH's modular nature supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints or high transportation costs. Its high yields and reduced environmental impact make PDH a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, notably improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature, requiring high temperatures for high yields, underscores the importance of high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It uses renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and has potential in ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 processes. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are promising, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally beneficial, requires improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and consider abundant elements, with a focus on low-temperature CO2 activation, transforming propylene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the global propylene demand by efficiently utilizing cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene selectivity with hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and cost-effective solution favored in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing zinc-based catalysts, offers a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, demonstrate high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion, showcasing its efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits and addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, the ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas, offers a stable and cost-effective propane source for propylene production. It efficiently converts propane to propylene, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity advantages make it a promising and emerging technology in the propylene production sector.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers a sustainable and cost-effective solution for propylene production. It improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially yielding higher propylene outputs compared to traditional methods. PDH's use of shale gas resources and selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes make it a promising method to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional processes. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, efficiently addresses growing propylene demand, unlike conventional methods reliant on scarce naphtha and crude oil. It's more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and directly converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This sustainable method overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for global propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, contrasting with conventional methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. By utilizing a Pt catalyst supported on alumina with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability. This significantly reduces coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in traditional processes, making PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock, reduces oil dependency and employs vanadium oxide catalysts for superior reactivity and selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges in efficiency and selectivity. This results in competitive performance, lower costs, and reduced toxicity compared to traditional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out as the most promising production method. It overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering cost-effective and environmentally sound solutions. PDH's superiority is underscored by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, which have boosted the conversion of abundant shale gas-derived propane into high-value propylene, as highlighted in Quote 4 and Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas reserves, which enhances feedstock availability. It offers potentially higher efficiency and improved product selectivity compared to traditional methods, with direct propylene production and lower costs due to shale gas use. The development of a high-performance catalyst is key to maximizing PDH's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers superior advantages for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It boasts enhanced efficiency, longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH significantly improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it the preferred choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels in feedstock efficiency, process optimization, and selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts' short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity pose challenges to fully harnessing PDH's potential.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging increased propane supply from shale gas exploration. Its use of anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhances efficiency and addresses limitations of conventional methods, demonstrating PDH's potential in effectively utilizing abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, especially where steam cracking's capacity is maxed out. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts in PDH offer high selectivity and onstream stability, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. These advancements are critical due to the high cost and toxicity issues of current catalysts, making PDH a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher efficiency and selectivity, ensuring a steady propylene supply to meet growing global demand without constraints faced by conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Rising global propylene demand and abundant shale-gas propane reserves have spotlighted PDH technology. Commercial PDH, employing Catofin and Oleflex processes, encounters challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt costs. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and promising, resolve these issues, making PDH a viable solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior alternative for propylene production, offering high selectivity in converting propane directly into propylene. This process is more efficient and less energy-intensive than traditional methods, which have lower propylene yields. PDH's resource efficiency and reduced environmental impact make it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using affordable propane and butane, offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Its retrofitting potential avoids significant investment, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, ensuring stable output, higher yields, and reduced byproducts, thus addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha due to shale gas and natural gas abundance, is emerging as a key solution in propylene production. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, effectively tackling industry challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas-derived propane, meets global propylene demand with high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with moderate Ni, improve activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. The shale gas boom, rich in propane, has made PDH feedstocks extremely affordable. PDH's adjustable factories can run various reactions, making the technology highly profitable due to the price difference between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, addressing a key challenge in propylene production. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, PDH achieves high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal conversion. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures improve conversion, guided by equilibrium trends. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, addressing conventional method challenges by efficiently converting abundant propane to propylene with high selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a strategic choice for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. It serves as an effective supplement to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas as a feedstock addresses these issues, making it a key solution in meeting the growing global demand for olefins. The technology's selectivity and efficiency make it a promising method, especially considering the limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient solution for propene production from propane, offering higher selectivity to propene, which results in increased yields and reduced costs. It can utilize propane from various feedstocks, enhancing availability and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, utilizing propane from diverse sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, ensuring flexibility. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes provide high propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage. The direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, improving selectivity. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, improving efficiency. PDH's direct conversion process also limits the formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide, further enhancing product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. It leverages abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas production, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Commercial processes like Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR use specific catalysts for dehydrogenation, though deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technology, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and low propane costs from shale gas. Indium-based catalysts are noted for their high stability and selectivity in PDH, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, to further improve PDH technology's efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane in shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, use PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, respectively, but high Pt costs and Cr toxicity limit PDH's potential, underscoring the need for cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods, making it cost-effective and sustainable. Its single-reactor design enhances efficiency and product selectivity, particularly in regions with ample propane supply. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant propane, addressing feedstock availability issues. It offers higher efficiency and selectivity, converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. PDH's sustainable, cost-effective conversion makes it a cleaner, targeted method to meet demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology directly produces propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, it ensures a steady and cost-effective propane supply. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity, a key advantage over conventional methods, crucial for future production given the projected 2-3% annual demand growth until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging cost-effective shale gas extraction to address feedstock availability. The shift from naphtha to ethane in steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH benefits from the price gap between propane and propylene, making it profitable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH exclusively yields high-purity olefins, directly addressing conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, efficiently converts abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. It outperforms conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene. This green and cost-effective approach tackles environmental challenges and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, preventing overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting superior propylene selectivity over MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high propylene selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. The catalyst's Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property contribute to its anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production, offering high selectivity. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by efficiently using propane as a single feedstock, ensuring product selectivity and process efficiency. The availability of cheap light alkanes from unconventional gas sources supports a steady and cost-effective supply of raw materials. PDH's advantages, including single feed and product, wide raw material sources, and lower costs, make it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising propylene production method, addressing conventional challenges. Its high-temperature operation impacts C3H6 selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting abundant propane directly into propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. It improves process efficiency and product selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a direct and economical method for producing propylene, a key petrochemical for plastics and other products. As an alternative to conventional methods, PDH addresses the depletion of petroleum resources and offers a commercially viable process. However, the high-temperature requirement for PDH catalysis promotes side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and catalyst deactivation. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production, making PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading, eco-friendly method for propylene production, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. It addresses the growing global demand sustainably and is expanding its role with new plants. Conventional PDH catalysts have health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation, but recent eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, enhance activity in propane dehydrogenation, addressing catalyst limitations.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, making it a viable solution to meet escalating global demand. It specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, offering a reliable source of propylene where conventional methods fall short.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas as a cost-effective feedstock, boasting high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, are pivotal in PDH, an on-purpose non-oxidative process, which gains prominence due to advancements in shale gas exploration.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane and capitalizing on the price gap between propane and propylene, is a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas, offers a single-step conversion to propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity while reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations. Compared to steam cracking, PDH boasts lower costs, higher yields, and greater sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it addresses challenges faced by conventional methods. Its endothermic reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, underscores the need for high-activity, stable, and selective catalysts, making it a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr based catalysts, and using renewable green propane as feedstock. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, and unlike oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2), it avoids overoxidation. Boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts are emerging as highly active and selective. CO2 as a soft oxidant (ODH-CO2) is environmentally advantageous but has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with further development, can transform propylene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by efficiently closing the supply-demand gap. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, ensuring high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it an eco-friendly and cost-efficient choice in the current industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand and limitations of conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, an earth-abundant and non-toxic option, demonstrates high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97%, showcasing its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, excels with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. It achieves 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h, demonstrating efficiency and environmental friendliness without relying on non-noble metals, thus overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using a ZnO-based catalyst, offers a greener approach to propylene production, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. It boasts three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity, making it a promising alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources for a stable and cost-effective propane supply, directly converting propane to propylene efficiently. This method surpasses conventional processes in efficiency and selectivity, mitigating the demand-supply gap of propene caused by high energy consumption in traditional routes. PDH's non-oxidative process is more efficient and represents an emerging industrial solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane as a more abundant and stable feedstock than naphtha, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It selectively converts propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently, and addresses the need for efficient production processes to meet increasing propylene demand, offering higher yields compared to traditional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an efficient alternative to conventional methods. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as feedstock, offers a more energy-efficient and environmentally friendly approach to propylene production. It selectively produces propylene with fewer byproducts and lower emissions of CO2 and NOx compared to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. PDH's reliance on propane, sourced from abundant natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability and makes it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive conventional methods. It boasts high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation, common issues in traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas for feedstock flexibility, offers superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability through vanadium oxide catalysts. This enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges of conventional propylene production methods, making PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, highlights the need for efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred choice over alternatives like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR). PDH specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion, promoting its utilization through abundant shale gas extraction, thus strengthening PDH's position as the most promising pathway for high-value propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, directly produces propylene, meeting global demand. Its advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. A highly active, selective, and durable catalyst further boosts PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, including improved feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. Notably, it excels in CH bond activation, reactive longevity, and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to meet global propylene demand, yet its Pt-based catalysts, while widely used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, as highlighted: 'Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) has great potential to meet the increasing global demand for propylene, but the widely used Pt-based catalysts usually suffer from short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity.'", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas resources, addresses the growing global demand for propylene by offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability and product selectivity. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, enhance process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, offering high selectivity and onstream stability. This addresses the growing global demand for propylene and overcomes limitations of conventional methods, such as high costs and toxicity, making PDH a more efficient and direct route for propylene production from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant propane feedstock and reduce by-products. Conventional methods, such as naphtha steam cracking, are strained by increasing fossil energy consumption. PDH's high efficiency and selectivity offer a strategic edge, positioning it as a critical solution in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample shale-gas propane reserves, PDH technology stands out, addressing conventional production challenges. Traditional PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces issues due to Cr toxicity and Pt's high cost. Cobalt-based catalysts, leveraging Co's earth abundance, offer a viable long-term solution for the PDH industry, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steps. It optimizes resource use and minimizes environmental impact, making it advantageous for meeting global propylene demand compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable and widely available propane and butane feedstocks, easy integration into existing facilities, and higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, excels in converting propane to propylene with high efficiency and selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene production, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient with higher yields, making it a sustainable and economically viable option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging the shift to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas, enhances propylene production by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite its energy intensity and high-temperature requirements, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively tackles selectivity and catalyst stability issues, making it a promising solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane, offers a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propylene production, addressing global demand. It surpasses conventional methods by achieving high conversion rates and selectivity, thanks to enhanced zinc-based catalysts with Ni, making it a promising solution for propylene production, specifically tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and the technology's adaptability and the growing propylene market make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane, addressing feedstock availability. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1, it achieves high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield, thus overcoming conventional method limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global demand. Despite thermodynamic equilibrium limitations, optimized conditions and catalysts closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures improve conversion. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development, ensuring PDH's superiority in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods. It offers exclusive selectivity to olefins, unlike alternative pathways such as MTO, FTO, and ODH, making it advantageous in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By leveraging the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, PDH addresses challenges faced by traditional methods. Its thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic reactions provide process efficiency benefits, while the use of alkanes as feedstocks specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, offering higher propene selectivity for higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and economically advantageous compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane sources, operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, and directly converts propane to propylene with high yields and minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. This process reduces energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, addressing challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, an abundant and economical feedstock from natural gas production, is utilized. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process. Challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, but PDH remains a promising method for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, are favored for propylene production due to growing global demand and low propane costs from shale gas. Ongoing research into catalysts, particularly indium-based materials, highlights PDH's potential for high stability and selectivity, directly addressing conventional method challenges. Continuous efforts to enhance PDH through a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, make it a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and ample propane reserves in shale gas, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising method for propylene production, notably through Oleflex and Catofin technologies. The high cost and toxicity of current catalysts in PDH processes underscore the need for developing more cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives, critical for advancing PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, offers higher selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in regions with abundant propane supply. This addresses limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, effectively meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It utilizes abundant shale gas feedstock, offering sustainability and cost-effectiveness over conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil. PDH exhibits higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a leading method for propylene production, directly addresses the challenges of conventional methods by ensuring plentiful and cheaper propane feedstock through hydraulic fracturing, enhancing process efficiency, and offering high product selectivity by producing only propylene. The forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035 highlights the importance of PDH's development, which is considered one of the most promising methods due to its selectivity and the need to regulate reaction conditions for improved efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity challenges. Enhanced fracking (Quote 2) has slashed gas costs (Quote 3), favoring shale gas as a feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane (Quote 4) has curtailed propylene supply, escalating its price and PDH's profitability (Quote 6). PDH's on-purpose technique (Quote 7) yields high-purity propylene, outshining conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, highlighted for converting abundant propane into propylene, offers superior feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high catalytic activity and selectivity for PDH indicate enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. Pursuing a green, low-cost PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to address product selectivity and environmental challenges associated with traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from other processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boosts propylene production with over 95% C3H6 selectivity and stable regeneration in recycling reactions, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. The catalyst's tuned active Co species and surface acid property ensure high selectivity and anti-coke stability, offering advantages over conventional methods, including improved feedstock utilization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and efficient solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene, boasting high propylene selectivity. It overcomes the limitations of conventional methods, such as high energy consumption and low selectivity, by utilizing abundant and cheaper propane sourced from advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, offers a simplified and efficient process. It leverages abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from shale gas, addressing the limitations of traditional naphtha and coal methods. PDH's advantages, including a wide source of raw materials and lower production costs, make it competitive for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling challenges of conventional methods. Despite requiring high temperatures, which affect selectivity and catalyst stability, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic competitiveness by directly converting low-cost propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing feedstock availability. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, enhancing catalyst stability and improving process efficiency. This direct conversion makes PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH provides a shorter production route. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH, particularly improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using cleaner natural/shale gas, offers environmental benefits over oil-based methods and is expanding its role in propylene production. Challenges with conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts, including health risks and cost, are being addressed by new eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. It specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, making it an efficient process capable of fulfilling large propylene demands.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas as feedstock, achieving high propane-to-propylene conversion rates, and minimizing by-product formation due to its selectivity. Its modular design ensures flexible capacity and lower capital costs than traditional plants. As a non-oxidative process, PDH benefits from advancements in shale gas exploration. Vanadium-based catalysts, known for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, reinforce PDH's position as a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it an effective solution to meet growing propylene demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane from shale gas, offers a single-step conversion to propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity while reducing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, making it economically and environmentally viable with lower costs and higher yields than conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, crucial for meeting global propylene demand, overcomes conventional production challenges by focusing on catalyst development for high activity, stability, and selectivity. This enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, addressing the endothermic nature of PDH that requires high temperatures for optimal yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses challenges in conventional methods by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving process efficiency and product selectivity. Compared to alternatives like ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2, PDH excels in selectivity and activity. Future catalyst design should focus on enhancing propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, while ODH-CO2 requires improved CO2 activation. The scarcity of catalytic elements suggests a shift towards more abundant alternatives. Research on low-temperature CO2 activation is a priority. PDH's development could transform propylene manufacturing, utilizing green propane for a sustainable chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing cheap propane from shale gas, offers eco-friendly and cost-efficient propylene production with high selectivity and hydrogen as a by-product, effectively addressing the global demand and challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using zinc-based catalysts, is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing conventional method limitations. Zinc's earth-abundance, non-toxicity, and high propylene selectivity make PDH more efficient and environmentally friendly, with good dehydrogenation activity and regeneration capability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages in propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges through high activity, selectivity, and stability with cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts. By encapsulating NPs into an NC layer, PDH achieves high performance, exemplified by 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, showcasing its potential to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine used in conventional catalyst regeneration. A novel ZnO-based catalyst for PDH exhibits three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions, highlighting its environmental compatibility and efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, ensuring a stable and cost-effective feedstock for propylene production. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, addressing energy intensity and the demand-supply gap. PDH's improved process efficiency and product selectivity make it an emerging and efficient solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages over conventional propylene production methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By utilizing abundant and stable propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH ensures a reliable feedstock supply. This process improves efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's potential for higher yields and selectivity, especially when utilizing shale gas resources, makes it a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. Unlike traditional methods, PDH doesn't rely on specific feedstocks, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, utilizing abundant propane feedstock for enhanced availability, achieving higher efficiency, and minimizing CO2 and NOx emissions for sustainability. Its direct conversion to propylene reduces byproducts, effectively addressing the growing global demand for this key chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt catalyst with Sn promoter, PDH achieves high selectivity and stability in propane conversion to propylene, significantly reducing common catalyst deactivation issues like coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas for feedstock, offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity through vanadium oxide catalysts, making it a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic alternative for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "With global propylene demand surging to 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) stands out as the most promising production method. PDH excels in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, outshining alternatives like MTP and WGSR. Its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it a superior choice. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced PDH's appeal by converting abundant shale gas into high-value propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane. It excels in feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved product selectivity over traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene, benefits from lower costs due to shale gas abundance, and offers a more efficient process enhancing selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for meeting high propylene demand, offering benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It excels in CH bond activation, has extended reactive longevity, and is eco-friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and stability, surpassing conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, it faces challenges with Pt-based catalysts, which exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas resources, enhances propylene production by addressing feedstock availability. It optimizes conversion rates, boosting process efficiency, and improves product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, particularly in regions where steam cracking falls short. VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, noted for their onstream stability and high selectivity, enhance PDH's potential to overcome conventional methods' limitations. Novel catalyst development aims to address high costs and toxicity, making PDH a more efficient route for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, boasting abundant feedstock and reduced by-products. It efficiently addresses the limitations of conventional methods, notably their struggle to meet demands as fossil energy consumption escalates, by offering superior efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and growing propane reserves from shale gas, PDH technology, using cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, such as Cr toxicity and Pt high cost, by leveraging Co's earth abundance, suggesting long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. It bypasses energy-intensive steps, offering greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane for enhanced feedstock availability, boasting superior propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods, with the added benefit of easy retrofitting of existing facilities, avoiding significant investment.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, ensures stable propylene supply with high efficiency and selectivity, reducing byproduct formation. It's more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes, making it a sustainable choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a key solution for propylene production, leveraging the availability of light alkanes from shale and natural gas to address feedstock limitations of conventional methods. Despite its energy-intensive nature and high-temperature requirements, which challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, as evidenced by the proven effectiveness of isolating active sites to tackle challenges (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for propylene production, utilizes abundant shale gas-derived propane, offering high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. This addresses conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced with Ni, ensure cost-effectiveness and nontoxicity, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for propylene production, addressing the fossil fuel dependency, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity of conventional methods. It specifically targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon products. Fracking technology's shale gas, rich in propane, offers a cost-effective feedstock for PDH. PDH plants' adaptability and the price gap between propylene and propane, coupled with the growing propylene market, make PDH highly profitable.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a key challenge for propylene production. It excels in process efficiency and product selectivity, notably through the use of advanced catalysts like ZnO on silicalite-1, which exhibit high catalytic activity, stability, and yield of propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, closely approaching ideal conversion rates with optimized catalysts and conditions. It addresses conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, and improving process efficiency and selectivity. Increasing propane conversion through temperature and pressure adjustments reduces costs, highlighting PDH's commercial viability and catalyst development importance.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to conventional methods like SC and FCC. It serves as an effective supplement, leveraging the abundant alkanes in shale gas. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties ensure high process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency faced by traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient solution for propylene production from abundant propane sources, boasting higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods. This direct conversion process reduces production costs and environmental impact, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock to achieve high yields with minimal byproducts. It operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts improve propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane conversion to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, and lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, addressing the challenges of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a superior approach to propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas sources. It boasts simpler reactant and product distribution, reduced investment costs, and seamless integration with current technologies. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, employ different catalysts and pressures, with catalyst deactivation and stability posing ongoing challenges. Efforts to improve catalyst resistance to coke and prevent active site aggregation are crucial for long-term stability. The availability of light alkanes from natural gas production, including shale gas, ensures a steady and economical feedstock for PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by growing global propylene demand and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Indium-based catalysts in PDH technologies are particularly advantageous. Ongoing research into diverse catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, further enhances PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and the shale-gas-derived abundance of propane, PDH technology, notably Oleflex and Catofin processes using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, emerges as a solution to propylene production challenges. It tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency. However, the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts is highlighted, crucial for PDH's advancement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts abundant propane directly into propylene, offering higher selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods. Its streamlined process in a single reactor reduces costs and complexity. PDH's targeted conversion results in higher propylene yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a sustainable and cost-effective alternative, especially in propane-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene, leveraging abundant shale gas resources. It enhances feedstock availability by directly using propane, unlike conventional naphtha or oil cracking methods. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This makes it a sustainable, cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas regions, addressing global propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's selectivity for propylene boosts efficiency, crucial for meeting future needs as demand is forecasted to grow 2% to 3% annually until 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity. Enhanced shale gas extraction via fracking has slashed gas costs, making shale gas a prime feedstock. The U.S. shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price, and PDH's profitability is bolstered by the current propane-propylene price gap. As an on-purpose technique, PDH yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce mixed products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, offering superior feedstock availability. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity for propylene production highlight improved process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. The need for a green, low-cost PDH catalyst underscores its potential to overcome challenges associated with traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by leveraging abundant shale gas for cost-effective propane feedstock, efficiently inhibiting overoxidation to boost process efficiency, and offering high propylene selectivity for superior product quality, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts enhance PDH technology, achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising method for propylene production. The state of active Co species and surface acid property, tuned by Ti species, are crucial for high selectivity and anti-coke stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high propylene selectivity, is a promising and cost-effective method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. Advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction have made propane more abundant and cheaper, enhancing PDH's efficiency and addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene) for enhanced efficiency. It benefits from abundant, cost-effective light alkanes sourced from unconventional gas, addressing the limitations of traditional methods. PDH's competitive edge, including lower production costs, makes it a strategic choice for meeting the escalating global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is advantageous for propylene production, tackling conventional method challenges. Despite requiring high temperatures that can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause catalyst instability, nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology economically converts abundant propane directly into propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH offers high selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, which can reduce catalyst activity and stability. By utilizing propane as a feedstock, PDH enhances availability and bypasses intermediate steps, minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a critical response to the escalating demand for propylene, a fundamental petrochemical. It directly transforms propane into propylene, offering a cost-effective and streamlined production method. Commercially viable through processes like Catofin and Oleflex, PDH addresses the shortfall of conventional methods amid dwindling petroleum resources. However, the high-temperature requirement of PDH triggers side reactions, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst longevity. Developing robust catalysts with high selectivity and stability under harsh conditions is essential for industrial-scale propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, leveraging cleaner natural/shale gas over oil-based feedstocks for environmental benefits. Its expanding role is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional catalysts have issues: CrOx catalysts raise health concerns due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are expensive and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed, offering a sustainable and efficient solution for propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out for its superior process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Historically, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene demand, but ethane cracking from natural gas disrupted this, necessitating on-purpose propylene production. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, tackles feedstock availability and process efficiency challenges, making it crucial for meeting significant propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high propane-to-propylene conversion rate, minimizing by-products, and its modular nature allows for flexible capacity and lower costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is a cost-effective alternative to steam cracking. Vanadium-based catalysts, noted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, enhance PDH's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, ensuring sufficient propylene production without relying on dwindling oil reserves.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas, reducing reliance on costly naphtha. By directly converting propane to propylene, PDH achieves higher efficiency and selectivity, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Modular PDH plants offer flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure constraints. Its abundant feedstock, higher yields, and lower energy consumption make PDH a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing global propylene demand, overcomes challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures for high yields, underscoring the critical role of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt or Cr catalysts, offers high spacetime yields for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, prevents coke but risks overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in PDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activation in ODH-CO2, prioritizing abundant elements and low-temperature CO2 activation for green propane-based propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a preferred solution for the growing global propylene demand, offering cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits over conventional methods. It leverages widely available, cheap propane from shale gas, ensuring a reliable feedstock. PDH achieves high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the need for efficient processes. This technology's eco-friendly and cost-efficient nature makes it a standout choice in the current industrial landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, offers an alternative to non-petroleum based propylene production, addressing global demand. The Zn@S-1 catalyst, with its high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, is promising for industrial PDH processes. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic alternative, is explored due to the scarcity and toxicity of platinum and chromium in current PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and stability, achieving 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a vital alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and addressing global demand sustainably. A ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, directly addressing production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane source. It directly converts propane to propylene more efficiently than conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and struggle to meet demand. PDH's non-oxidative route ensures higher product selectivity and process efficiency, addressing the challenges of conventional production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offering a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional propylene production methods. PDH processes enhance efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, particularly when utilizing propane from shale gas. This method potentially yields higher propylene outputs and selectivity compared to traditional techniques, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology converts propane to propylene efficiently, offering an alternative to traditional methods. Its independence from specific feedstocks enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to meet growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene, a key raw material, by utilizing abundant propane for enhanced feedstock availability. It offers superior process efficiency with lower CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods, and boasts higher selectivity for propylene production, directly tackling the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing energy-intensive and CO2-emitting naphtha cracking. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, notably reducing coke formation and sintering, common catalyst deactivation issues in conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from abundant shale gas, enhances propylene production by reducing reliance on oil-based sources. Its vanadium oxide catalysts offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, improving efficiency and selectivity. These benefits make PDH a competitive, cost-effective, and less toxic solution, addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Facing a global propylene demand of 116 million tons in 2020 (Quote 2), propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising production method. It addresses the limitations of conventional techniques like methanol to propylene (MTP) and Fischer-Tropsch water gas shift reaction (WGSR) by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits (Quote 4), making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further enhanced propane conversion (Quote 5), reinforcing PDH's position as a leading solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant propane, offers improved feedstock availability and potentially lower costs. It streamlines the process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity over traditional methods, further boosted by the development of a highly active and selective PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering superior feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Its CH bond activation capability, longer reactive lifespan, and environmental benefits make it a compelling choice. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, directly addressing the limitations of traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a promising solution to meet global propylene demand, outperforming conventional methods. Pt-based catalysts, though common in PDH, struggle with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, underscoring the need for enhanced process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures, utilizes abundant shale gas resources, addressing feedstock availability challenges in propylene production. Despite issues with catalyst deactivation due to coke deposition, PDH's ability to leverage shale gas highlights its potential in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering a promising solution to conventional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers high propylene selectivity and onstream stability, addressing process efficiency and selectivity challenges. It's advantageous where feedstock availability limits steam cracking, meeting growing propylene demand. Novel catalyst development aims to improve on current industrial catalysts, enhancing PDH's benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior alternative for propylene production, offering abundant feedstock and reduced by-product generation compared to conventional naphtha steam cracking. It addresses growing demand by enhancing efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution to traditional production limitations.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global propylene demand and abundant shale gas-derived propane reserves, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution. Despite challenges posed by the toxicity of Cr and high Pt costs, cobalt-based catalysts offer a viable alternative, leveraging Co's earth abundance for long-term potential. This addresses conventional methods' limitations, making PDH a key strategy for meeting global propylene needs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently converts propane to propylene with high selectivity, avoiding energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This method optimizes resource use and reduces environmental impact, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane and butane, readily available from petrochemical processes, and is compatible with existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a leading solution to meet growing global demand, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, boasts high propylene conversion and selectivity, minimizing byproducts. This method is more efficient, cost-effective, and sustainable than oil-based processes, which have lower yields and require complex separation. PDH's energy efficiency and reduced oil dependency make it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes, offers improved feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite energy intensity and high temperatures leading to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, pivotal for escalating global propylene demand, utilizes abundant shale gas-derived propane for high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Enhancing zinc-based catalysts with Ni boosts activity and stability, addressing conventional method limitations. PDH's feedstock flexibility and process efficiency specifically tackle challenges in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production by offering high efficiency and selectivity, unlike fossil fuel-dependent methods with high CO2 emissions. Specifically targeting propylene production, PDH avoids hybrid hydrocarbon products. Benefiting from fracking technology, PDH uses cheap propane-rich shale gas as feedstock. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the growing propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing shale gas as feedstock, addresses the global demand for propylene by leveraging advancements in hydraulic fracturing. Efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 demonstrate high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a focus of recent research and commercial efforts, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic reaction, limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, can approach ideal results with proper catalysts and conditions. Despite being energy-intensive, PDH reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Strategies to boost conversion include increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures of hydrocarbons and H2. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion with the risk of unselective reactions. PDH's use of propane as feedstock, high conversion rate, and selectivity address conventional production challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods in light of growing global demand. Unlike MTO, FTO, and ODH, PDH leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. Its thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic reactions provide process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering the lower stability of propylene. This technology overcomes limitations of conventional methods by utilizing abundant alkanes in shale gas as feedstocks.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a sustainable and efficient approach to propene production from propane, tackling challenges of conventional methods. Propane's abundance and diverse sourcing ensure feedstock availability. PDH's enhanced selectivity for propene leads to higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and advantageous process.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas for on-purpose propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It operates under milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds and minimizing CC cleavage, offering direct conversion of propane to propylene with high product selectivity. Lower temperatures and pressures in PDH improve process efficiency, reduce energy consumption, and lower greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity with minimal byproduct formation.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Propane, an abundant and economical feedstock due to the exploitation of shale gas and natural gas, is utilized by PDH. Operating under atmospheric pressure, PDH enhances energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, driven by the global demand for propylene and low-cost shale gas-derived propane, highlights its advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Indium-based catalysts in PDH offer high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by traditional production. Ongoing research on catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, indicates efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a key technology for propylene production. PDH processes, exemplified by Oleflex and Catofin using PtSn/Al2O3 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts respectively, are pivotal in addressing conventional production limitations. However, the development of cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts is crucial to fully leverage PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, converting abundant propane directly into propylene with higher selectivity and lower energy use than conventional methods. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs, making it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in propane-rich regions. PDH's targeted propane-to-propylene conversion leads to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, distinguishing it as a viable alternative to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, offers superior process efficiency and product selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal by-products. This sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner method meets growing propylene demand, outperforming conventional naphtha or oil-based processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a direct propylene production method, is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, forecasted to grow 2-3% annually until 2035. Its advantage lies in utilizing abundant shale gas condensates rich in propane, thanks to hydraulic fracturing. PDH's exclusive production of propylene, without byproducts, ensures high product selectivity and efficiency, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, leveraging cost-effective fracking to boost shale gas supply, reducing gas costs by 75% since 2005. This shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and PDH's profitability, influenced by the favorable propane-propylene price gap. PDH's on-purpose technique yields high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods, and optimized processes can produce polymer-quality olefins.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing the CoSiBeta catalyst, excels in converting abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability challenges. Its high catalytic activity and selectivity improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which often use costly and environmentally impactful CrOx and Pt catalysts. The urgent need for a green and cost-effective PDH catalyst highlights the technology's focus on environmental challenges and cost-effectiveness, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas, effectively inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and boasting high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes and directly addressing challenges in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, boasts over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. This advancement supports recycling PDH reactions, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand, particularly addressing limitations in feedstock availability faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high propylene selectivity, making it a cost-effective and efficient method for propylene production. The abundance and lower cost of propane, due to advancements in gas extraction, enable PDH to meet the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock and producing propylene as the sole product, enhancing efficiency. Leveraging light alkanes from shale gas, PDH ensures a steady, cost-effective supply, unlike naphtha and coal methods. Its lower costs and wide availability of raw materials make PDH a competitive solution for growing global propylene demand, as highlighted by its single feed/product process and economic benefits.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high activity and propylene yields, addressing conventional production challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures that can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity through nanostructured catalysts, improving propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically viable, directly converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity, addressing dwindling fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH enhances efficiency and selectivity by skipping intermediate steps and minimizing side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, a vital petrochemical (Quote [1]). It addresses limitations of conventional methods by directly converting propane to propylene, offering an economical and shorter production route (Quote [2]). Commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex (Quote [3]), PDH faces challenges due to its high-temperature requirement, leading to side reactions that affect propylene selectivity and catalyst stability (Quotes [4]-[6]). Efficient catalyst development is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is favored for propylene production due to its environmental benefits and efficiency, using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based methods. Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a key solution for on-purpose propylene production, offering enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it advantageous over conventional methods. The shift in ethylene and propylene production dynamics, influenced by the abundance of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas, has underscored the need for proper propylene production methods, with PDH emerging as a preferred choice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant shale gas, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular design ensures flexibility and lower capital costs. With a high conversion rate and minimized by-products, PDH is a promising alternative to conventional methods. Recent advancements in vanadium-based catalysts further enhance PDH's efficiency and cost-effectiveness, addressing limitations of traditional noble metal catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, utilizing plentiful propane and capitalizing on the significant price gap between propane and propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient production, overcoming challenges posed by dwindling petroleum resources and addressing market needs efficiently.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages widely available shale gas-derived propane, enhancing propylene production's efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy use. Its modular design supports flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with infrastructure limitations or high transportation costs. PDH offers lower operating costs and higher propylene yields, making it a sustainable, cost-effective solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology meets global propylene demand by utilizing high-temperature conditions for propane dehydrogenation. Its key advantage lies in the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, enabling superior propylene yields and efficiency compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, with its high spacetime yield over Pt or Cr catalysts, addresses conventional production challenges by leveraging renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and advancing with boron-based ODH-O2 catalysts for improved selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 offers environmental benefits but requires activity enhancement. Future catalyst design should focus on selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and CO2 activation at low temperatures, aiming to transform propene production sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane, efficiently addresses the propylene supply-demand gap. It offers eco-friendly, cost-effective processes with high selectivity to propylene, producing valuable hydrogen as a by-product, making it a preferred industrial solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc, particularly in Zn@S-1 catalysts, shows potential as an alternative, offering good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, making PDH advantageous for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, overcoming challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, PDH catalysts, sans non-noble metals, achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, underscoring its superiority over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A ZnO-based PDH catalyst demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, effectively tackling challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant natural gas and shale gas resources, offering a stable and cost-effective propane source. It directly transforms propane to propylene, enhancing production efficiency. PDH surpasses conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing the demand-supply gap caused by high energy consumption in traditional routes. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is more efficient and represents an emerging industry standard.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas processing and crude oil refining, offers higher efficiency and selectivity in propylene production compared to conventional methods. Its catalytic processes selectively convert propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes. This makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option, with potential for higher propylene yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production by converting propane to propylene, offering an alternative to feedstock-dependent and less efficient conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. Its key advantages include enhanced feedstock flexibility, improved process efficiency, and better product selectivity, directly addressing the limitations of traditional approaches.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, efficiently meets the rising global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, PDH offers superior product selectivity, lower CO2 and NOx emissions, and is less reliant on oil-based feedstocks, making it a sustainable and energy-efficient solution for the chemical industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective, eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming energy-intensive, CO2-emitting naphtha cracking methods. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and catalyst deactivation issues common in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, leveraging abundant shale gas, reduces dependence on oil-based feedstocks. Its use of vanadium oxide catalysts offers superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Rising global demand for propylene, a critical industrial component, necessitates efficient production methods. Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out as the most promising, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. In 2020, demand reached 116 million tons, underscoring the need for advanced techniques. PDH, noted for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, is preferred for high-value propylene production over MTP and WGSR. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have further boosted PDH's appeal by enhancing the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant shale gas reserves, is a promising method for propylene production. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. An active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further improve these aspects, addressing limitations of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Pt-based catalysts, excels in propylene production by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enhances catalytic performance and environmental friendliness, offering superior propylene selectivity and stability compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, addressing growing global propylene demand, offers benefits in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, surpassing conventional methods. However, Pt-based catalysts, integral to PDH, struggle with short-term stability and propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas propane to address feedstock availability. Its endothermic process ensures high conversion efficiency, while selective propylene production is a key advantage. PDH's cyclic operation highlights the importance of stable, anti-sintering catalysts, indicating ongoing research needs. Leveraging shale gas resources, PDH is pivotal in meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, with high selectivity and onstream stability, are being developed for propane and isobutane dehydrogenation, addressing the growing global demand for propylene and the limitations of current technologies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking. This makes PDH a promising solution to meet the increasing global demand for propylene, a key chemical in various industries.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and ample propane reserves from shale gas, propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology, particularly due to the potential of cobalt-based catalysts. Cobalt's earth-abundant presence suggests long-term viability for PDH, addressing the urgent need for new catalysts and offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high selectivity in converting propane directly to propylene. It boasts greater efficiency and a reduced environmental impact, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency. It overcomes conventional method challenges by enabling easy retrofitting of existing facilities, without the need for substantial investment.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production. It's a sustainable, economically viable alternative, minimizing byproducts, increasing yields, and reducing energy use. PDH ensures a stable feedstock supply, streamlining production with high conversion rates and selectivity, making it a promising solution for global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology's prominence in propylene production is bolstered by the shift to abundant light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas. It overcomes conventional method limitations by enhancing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to cracking and coking at high temperatures, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively improves alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using shale gas-derived propane, is a cost-effective and nontoxic propylene production method. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni improve activity and stability, overcoming conventional methods' limitations. PDH offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, making it a promising solution for growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, overcoming conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. As an on-purpose process, PDH specifically targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon production. Fracking technology's advent has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, highly affordable. PDH plants are adaptable, capable of various reactions, and benefit from the price difference between propylene and propane, making them highly profitable amidst growing propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant shale gas-derived propane to ensure feedstock availability, a critical advantage over conventional methods. Utilizing efficient ZnO-based catalysts supported on silicalite-1, PDH boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, demonstrating high catalytic activity, stability, and propylene yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing the growing global demand for propylene. Its endothermic nature is optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by maximizing propane conversion, reducing costs. Reaction conditions are critical for both commercial viability and catalyst development, ensuring high efficiency and selectivity with minimal by-products. This makes PDH a promising solution for escalating propylene demand, utilizing abundant propane feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for propylene production, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins and serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas to meet growing global demand for olefins. Compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways, PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency. This makes PDH a superior method for propylene production, specifically tailored to overcome the limitations of conventional SC and FCC methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity to propene for higher yields and lower costs, making it an environmentally friendly and economically viable solution compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock to achieve high yields and selectivity at milder conditions than steam cracking. Pt-based catalysts enhance propylene output by efficiently activating paraffinic CH bonds, minimizing byproducts. PDH's lower temperature and pressure operations reduce energy use and emissions, offering a more efficient and environmentally friendly solution.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, including simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The abundance of propane from natural gas production provides a steady and economical feedstock. PDH operates efficiently under atmospheric pressure, saving energy compared to high-pressure processes. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH avoids deep oxidation and COx production, enhancing selectivity for propylene. Challenges remain, such as catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, which are being addressed through research efforts.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, stems from their ability to meet growing global propylene demand using low-cost shale gas-derived propane. PDH, especially with indium-based catalysts, offers high stability and selectivity, addressing conventional method challenges. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, aims to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity, solidifying its position as a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves, catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising technology for propylene production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, offering advantages over conventional methods. Commercial processes like Oleflex and Catofin are pivotal, yet the quest for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts remains a critical challenge, highlighting PDH's potential for innovation in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, converting propane directly to propylene, offers a stable feedstock supply as propane is a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining. It boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than conventional methods, with a simplified process in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective choice, particularly in regions with abundant propane, meeting global propylene demand more efficiently than traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and sustainable solution for propylene production, converting low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, ensuring better feedstock availability. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene yield with minimal by-products, making it advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas and critical for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst a 2-3% annual rise in global propylene demand until 2035, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution for direct, exclusive propylene production. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cheaper propane feedstock is now accessible, addressing conventional method limitations. PDH's selectivity boosts propylene production, underscoring its significance in meeting future demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology stands out, tackling feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity issues. Enhanced fracking techniques have slashed gas costs, shifting feedstock preference from naphtha to ethane, leading to a propylene supply drop and price hike. PDH's profitability, bolstered by the propane-propylene price gap, is favorable in current markets. Its on-purpose production ensures high-purity propylene, unlike mixed olefins from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting abundant propane to propylene, offering superior feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst boosts PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity, outperforming conventional methods. Unlike CrOx and Pt catalysts, which are costly, environmentally impactful, and prone to rapid deactivation, PDH's catalysts ensure a more sustainable and efficient production process.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas extraction to address feedstock availability. It prevents overoxidation, enhancing process efficiency over ODH. PDH's high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, ensuring superior product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The Co species and Ti-tuned surface acid property enhance selectivity and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology efficiently meets the growing global demand for propylene, offering high selectivity and cost-effectiveness. It leverages abundant and cheaper propane, thanks to advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, addressing conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    