Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'In light of the growing global demand for propylene, what are the key advantages of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology that make it the most promising method for propylene production, and how does it specifically address the challenges faced by conventional production methods in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The emergence of propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising and advantageous technology to address the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene production, in the context of limitations faced by conventional methods.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH offers lower costs than traditional methods, making it competitive and ideal for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers high activity and yields but requires high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity, crucial for PDH's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without the issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that affect other processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses conventional method limitations by providing a non-petroleum-dependent route, directly converting propane to propylene. PDH is commercially viable and the most economical method. However, the process is endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is a key challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. The use of Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds to re-disperse platinum is also harmful. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as an efficient method for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses challenges caused by the imbalance in ethylene and propylene production, disrupted by the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas. As an emerging method, PDH specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant and cost-effective shale gas resources, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Compared to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, PDH is highlighted for its high efficiency and low cost. The development of non-noble metal-based catalysts, particularly vanadium-based ones, is crucial for PDH's advancement, offering high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It leverages abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in meeting growing global demand without relying on depleting petroleum resources. Unlike conventional methods, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply, making it a viable solution to the limitations of traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and scarce naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. Its modular plants enable flexible, localized production, ideal for areas with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. Compared to steam cracking, PDH has lower operating costs, higher propylene yields, and is more sustainable, making it a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to the growing global demand. It addresses the endothermic nature of the reaction, requiring high temperatures for high yields, by utilizing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, thus overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr-based catalysts. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and oxidative dehydrogenation using O2 (ODH-O2) avoids coke but risks overoxidation. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high activity and selectivity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and increase CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should focus on low temperature CO2 activation. PDH, with further development, can transform propylene manufacturing using green propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering several key advantages over conventional methods. It utilizes cheap and widely available propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH's eco-friendliness and cost-efficiency make it an attractive choice in the current industrial context, addressing the gap between supply and demand of propylene by providing an alternative production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have prompted the investigation of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. The Zn@S-1 catalyst exhibits high dehydrogenation activity and propylene selectivity, along with regeneration capability, demonstrating its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability, addressing challenges in propylene production. Catalysts achieve 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C, demonstrating efficiency and selectivity advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of a ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 analogue under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. Direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production. PDH offers process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods, which often result in a gap between demand and supply of propene. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and has become an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology complements propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock, offering advantages in feedstock availability over traditional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking of naphtha. PDH's development could improve process efficiency and product selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. This selective activation of CH bonds in light alkanes leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity, addressing the need for efficient production processes to meet the increasing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which are more feedstock-dependent and less efficient. This method specifically addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental friendliness, and improved feedstock availability. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes that use naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, derived from natural gas. This makes PDH less dependent on oil-based feedstocks and more sustainable, as it consumes less energy and emits fewer CO2 and NOx emissions. PDH also has higher product selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, making it an attractive alternative to meet the growing global demand for this essential chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a cost-effective and eco-friendly alternative to traditional propylene production methods, which are energy-intensive and emit high CO2. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional processes that lead to catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, offering improved feedstock availability compared to oil-based conventional methods. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability, outperforming Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts used in traditional plants, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, distinguishing itself from other techniques like MTP and WGSR. Considering cost and environmental effects, PDH is often regarded as the optimal pathway for producing high-value propylene. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing technology have further promoted the conversion and utilization of low-valued propane through abundant shale gas extraction, strengthening propane's role in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages abundant propane from shale gas reserves to directly produce propylene, addressing the growing global demand. Its key advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity, offering lower production costs due to the use of abundant shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global propylene demand, offering advantages over conventional methods by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Notably, while Pt-based catalysts are widely used, they suffer from short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential as a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its potential to utilize abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations that can lead to catalyst sintering. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration, are desired to enhance process efficiency and product selectivity. PDH's ability to leverage shale gas resources and its ongoing technological advancements make it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers good onstream stability and high selectivity, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity. It emerges as an attractive alternative for propene production, particularly where demand exceeds steam cracking capacity. The development of novel catalysts for PDH, driven by the limitations of current industrial catalysts like high platinum prices and chromium toxicity, highlights its potential to overcome conventional production challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production is gaining prominence due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, making it a superior alternative to conventional methods. As fossil energy consumption limits the efficiency of traditional propylene production, PDH's ability to address these challenges and meet growing global demand is increasingly recognized.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, offering advantages over conventional methods. Traditional processes using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts face challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost. Cobalt-based catalysts in PDH are promising, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability, addressing the need for new catalysts in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. This results in more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of cheap, readily available propane as feedstock, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency compared to conventional methods. Existing facilities can be easily retrofitted, making PDH a promising solution to meet growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability. It minimizes byproducts, achieving higher yields than traditional methods like steam cracking, which require complex separation processes. PDH's streamlined production, energy efficiency, and reduced dependency on oil-based feedstocks make it a sustainable and economically viable option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially as feedstock shifts from naphtha to light alkanes due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, addressing key issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is pivotal in meeting the global demand for propylene, a key industrial raw material. It offers advantages over conventional methods by addressing feedstock availability, achieving high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts, being cost-effective and non-toxic, are enhanced with Ni to improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. The advent of fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH extremely cheap, and PDH factories' adaptability enhances profitability, given the price difference between propylene and propane and the growing market demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhancing catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity and yield, thus improving process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature limits conversion by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing propane conversion. Strategies include raising temperature, lowering hydrocarbon and H2 pressures. Reaction conditions must balance equilibrium conversion and unselective reactions. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures availability and high conversion rates, addressing conventional method challenges in efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional methods' challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, PDH technology emerges as a superior method for production, leveraging widely available propane from sources like shale gas. PDH operates under milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The use of Pt-based catalysts boosts propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproducts, operates at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, and offers higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology (Quote 6). It utilizes abundant propane from natural gas production, addressing feedstock availability. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness compared to high-pressure processes. Catalyst deactivation and stability issues are challenges, but efforts are made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Despite drawbacks such as high Pt cost and Cr environmental impact, PDH technologies are being improved through the investigation of alternative catalysts, notably indium-based ones, which show potential for high stability and selectivity. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon, highlighting efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining interest due to abundant propane reserves in shale gas. PDH offers two primary processes: Oleflex using PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane to propylene without steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking, which have limitations. PDH uses abundant propane, offering higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption. Its single-reactor process simplifies operations, reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable, cost-effective option, especially in regions with ample propane supply, addressing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising alternative for production, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, making it a sustainable, cost-effective, and cleaner option, especially in shale gas-rich regions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand and outperforming conventional methods. It leverages abundant shale gas condensates as feedstock, made possible by hydraulic fracturing, ensuring cost-effectiveness and availability. PDH's key advantage lies in its selectivity, producing only propylene without byproducts, enhancing efficiency. With propylene demand projected to increase by 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's role in meeting this demand is critical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing has led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs and making shale gas a prime feedstock for chemicals. The abundance of cheap ethane has shifted U.S. steam cracking from naphtha to ethane, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price, thus favoring PDH. PDH's profitability is tied to the propane-propylene price differential, currently advantageous. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose, yield specific olefins, like propylene, with polymer-quality purity, outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant and low-cost propane into value-added propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH exhibits high catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While conventional catalysts like CrOx and Pt have high activity, they suffer from issues like high cost, environmental impact, and fast deactivation. The urgent need for a green and low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's aim to overcome the challenges of product selectivity and environmental impact associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on abundant shale gas feedstock, efficient inhibition of overoxidation, and high propylene selectivity. Shale gas extraction provides cheap propane, addressing feedstock availability. PDH curbs overoxidation, enhancing process efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high selectivity for propylene distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing process efficiency and product selectivity challenges. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalysts contribute to enhanced performance and anti-coke stability, making PDH a promising method for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With the abundance of cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as a single feedstock and propylene as the sole product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant and cost-effective light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, addresses the limitations of traditional methods that relied on naphtha and coal. PDH's lower production costs make it a competitive choice, meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It enhances feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, being endothermic, PDH requires high temperatures, causing coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts improve efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, influencing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers economic benefits by converting low-cost propane to propene, making it competitive. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and growing propene demand by efficiently converting abundant propane to propene with high selectivity. This process improves efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane, avoiding intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, thus addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest production route, commercially available through processes like Catofin and Oleflex. However, PDH faces challenges due to its endothermic and equilibrium-limited nature, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions and catalyst deactivation, impacting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing efficient catalysts with high selectivity and stability under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote 1) and increasing process efficiency (Quote 2). It addresses challenges of conventional methods, including health risks from Cr(VI) in CrOx catalysts (Quote 4) and the high cost and deactivation of Pt-based catalysts (Quotes 5-6). Recent developments in eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts (Quote 7) further enhance PDH's sustainability and cost-effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as an efficient process for meeting the high demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges posed by conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability, by serving as an on-purpose production method. The shift in ethylene production from naphtha crackers to ethane cracking has disrupted the balance, necessitating specialized techniques for propylene. PDH emerges as a solution, specifically tailored to overcome these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene and selectivity for propylene production, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. The use of vanadium-based catalysts in PDH technology is highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising alternative to conventional methods with high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods like steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH utilizes abundant propane resources and leverages the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in terms of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts, unlike multi-step processes. This results in lower energy consumption and higher yields, making PDH more sustainable and cost-effective. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in addressing the growing global demand for propylene, particularly due to its ability to operate at high temperatures for optimal yields. The endothermic nature of the PDH reaction underscores the importance of developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, essential for efficient propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing global propylene demand by using renewable green propane. It avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative DDH, and ODH-O2, which uses emerging boron-based catalysts to prevent overoxidation. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, struggles with low propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and improve CO2 activity in ODH-CO2, prioritizing low temperature CO2 activation and utilizing more abundant elements. Green propane's dehydrogenation offers a sustainable route to propene, transforming its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a preferred method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and supply gap. It utilizes abundant and cheap propane from shale gas, offering high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH is eco-friendly and cost-efficient, making it an attractive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a non-petroleum-based alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand challenges. Using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, PDH emerges as an industrial route with significant relevance. The scarcity of platinum and chromium's toxicity in current catalysts have led to the investigation of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. Zn@S-1 catalysts, in particular, exhibit high dehydrogenation activity, propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, demonstrating PDH's potential for industrial processes. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It allows direct large-scale production of propene with high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability of cost-efficient catalysts. An innovative approach involves encapsulating NPs into an NC layer, controlling ZnO NP size and preventing loss at high temperatures. This results in high PDH activity, achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, showcasing the technology's effectiveness.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, addressing conventional methods' limitations. It avoids toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine, using environmentally compatible ZnO-based catalysts. This innovation triples propene productivity while maintaining selectivity, outperforming a commercial KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cheap source for propane. This direct transformation of propane to propylene is an efficient way to increase production, offering process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, addressing the energy consumption and demand-supply gap issues of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. This leads to higher propylene yields and selectivity compared to conventional methods, addressing the challenges of meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, converting low-value propane to high-value propylene. It addresses challenges of conventional methods by offering an alternative route that doesn't rely on specific feedstocks, improving efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a critical raw material for various products. Unlike conventional methods using naphtha and crude oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and offers higher selectivity for propylene, directly addressing the limitations of traditional processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. Utilizing a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, effectively reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it uses propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, a key industrial component, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a leading solution, addressing the limitations of traditional production methods. In 2020, the demand reached approximately 116 million tons, outpacing supply. PDH, alongside alternatives like MTP and WGSR, garners attention for its efficiency and environmental benefits, making it the preferred method for high-value propylene production. Enhanced by advancements in hydraulic fracturing, PDH optimizes the conversion of abundant, low-valued propane from shale gas, enhancing its utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. Its key advantages include improved feedstock availability, potentially higher process efficiency, and enhanced product selectivity compared to traditional methods. PDH directly produces propylene from propane, offering lower costs and a more direct process, which could enhance efficiency and selectivity. The focus on developing a selective and durable catalyst for PDH further boosts its process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, has longer reactive longevity, and is environmentally friendly. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, making it a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the growing global demand for propylene, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used in PDH, exhibit short-term stability and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges in the field.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained attention for propylene production, especially with the rise in shale gas exploration. Supported platinum-based catalysts are active but prone to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources offers a significant advantage in meeting global propylene demand, addressing challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propylene production, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity. This addresses the growing demand for propylene, especially where conventional methods, like steam cracking, cannot further increase production. The development of these novel catalysts for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane suggests PDH's potential to improve process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution to the challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by utilizing abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products. Unlike conventional methods, such as naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet increasing needs due to fossil energy consumption, PDH offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas deposits highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH). PDH, particularly with cobalt-based catalysts, emerges as a promising solution, offering long-term utility due to the earth's abundance of cobalt. This addresses the limitations of conventional Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts used in the Catofin and Oleflex processes, which are hindered by Cr toxicity and Pt cost, respectively.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting widely available propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It surpasses conventional methods by being less energy-intensive and offering higher yields. PDH also demonstrates potential for efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact, making it an advantageous solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane feedstocks, higher propylene selectivity, and process efficiency. It can be easily integrated into existing facilities, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. This makes PDH a promising solution for meeting growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane, offers high efficiency and selectivity in converting propane to propylene, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to traditional methods, PDH ensures a stable propylene source, achieves higher yields with less complex separation processes, and minimizes byproduct formation, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional method limitations in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's energy intensity and high reaction temperatures pose challenges for selectivity and catalyst stability, but the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, as shown in research.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the global demand for propylene, a key industrial raw material. It leverages widely available propane from shale gas, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni enhance catalytic activity and stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which have lower selectivity and rely heavily on fossil fuels. The advent of fracking has made propane, a key PDH feedstock, abundantly available and cheap. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing process efficiency. The technology's profitability is underscored by the growing propylene market and the price differential between propylene and propane.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, offering high propylene yield and stability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts enable near-ideal results. PDH's high energy consumption is mitigated by increasing single-pass propane conversion, reducing costs. Reaction conditions are critical, balancing conversion with unselective reactions. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by utilizing abundant propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity, and minimizing by-products.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH pathways. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and high endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods, which face challenges in feedstock availability and efficiency. The unique selectivity of PDH to olefins and its ability to utilize alkanes from shale gas address the challenges of conventional production methods, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, addressing conventional production challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs, making it environmentally friendly and economically advantageous.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and increased propane availability from sources like shale gas, PDH emerges as a leading propylene production method. It excels in feedstock flexibility, using propane from natural gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH boost propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct propane-to-propylene conversion minimizes unwanted byproducts. PDH's lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas production. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with current technology. PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges include catalyst deactivation and stability, but efforts are being made to improve resistance to coke and protect active sites. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane derived from shale gas. PDH, particularly with indium-based catalysts, offers potential advantages in stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into PDH catalysts, including indium-based materials, reflects efforts to improve process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, like Oleflex and Catofin, face challenges due to the high cost of Pt catalysts and the toxicity of Cr catalysts, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, addressing limitations in feedstock availability. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption compared to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The single-reactor process simplifies operations and reduces costs. PDH's higher product selectivity and process efficiency make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH directly uses propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, achieving greater propane conversion and propylene yield with fewer by-products. This sustainable and cost-effective method aligns with the increasing global demand for propylene and the exploitation of shale gas resources, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a leading solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, abundant and cost-effective propane feedstock is now accessible. PDH's exclusive propylene production boosts selectivity, addressing conventional method limitations. With propylene demand projected to rise 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is critical for meeting market needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction via fracking has significantly lowered gas costs, making it a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price gap between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields propylene, optimizing for polymer-quality purity, distinguishing it from conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst's high activity and selectivity for PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost and environmental impact. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction offers abundant and cost-effective propane for PDH, unlike conventional methods. PDH curbs overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, excels in propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling reactions. The Ti species-tuned state and surface acid property of the catalyst contribute to its high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity that surpasses conventional methods' limitations of high energy consumption and low selectivity. With the abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH becomes a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a single feedstock (propane) and product (propylene), enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and simplified process make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet market demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It tackles feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause catalyst issues like coking and sintering, nanostructured catalysts enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. It addresses challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation that can reduce catalyst activity. PDH improves feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane to propene, minimizing undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not dependent on scarce petroleum resources. PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it the most economical and shortest route, as highlighted in quote [3]. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, as mentioned in quote [5], leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology, especially improving catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, remains a significant challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock compared to oil-based cracking. Its growing contribution is evident with new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks due to Cr(VI) toxicity, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts have been developed to address these issues, showing high activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, offering superior process efficiency and product selectivity. Historically, naphtha crackers balanced ethylene and propylene production, but the surge in ethylene from natural gas and shale gas has disrupted this equilibrium, necessitating on-purpose propylene production methods. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a key strategy for meeting the large demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency with a high conversion rate of propane to propylene and selectivity for propylene production, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs compared to large-scale petrochemical plants. The technology, a non-oxidative process, has gained attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It is considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The literature highlights the need for novel non-noble metal-based catalysts, with vanadium-based catalysts emerging as a promising choice due to their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Propylene, a crucial petrochemical, faces production shortfalls due to dwindling petroleum resources, making PDH technology a promising solution. PDH leverages the abundant propane supply and significant price differential between propane and propylene, effectively addressing conventional methods' limitations in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, PDH ensures sufficient propylene production without depleting oil reserves.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on less abundant and more expensive naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more economically and environmentally viable option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, as it emphasizes the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods by improving process efficiency and product selectivity, especially considering the endothermic nature of the reaction, which necessitates high temperatures for optimal yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology stands out in propylene production for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts. PDH addresses conventional method challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, PDH avoids coke formation, eliminating the need for multi-reactor cycling. Oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) and CO2 (ODH-CO2) are alternatives, but ODH-O2 can lead to overoxidation, while ODH-CO2 has lower propene yields. Boron-based catalysts in ODH-O2 show promise, but future PDH catalyst design should focus on improving propene selectivity. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation and utilize more abundant catalytic elements. PDH's advancements could transform propylene manufacturing, leveraging green propane for a sustainable chemical intermediate.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing cheap, abundant propane from shale gas as a feedstock, achieving high selectivity to propylene with hydrogen as a by-product. This eco-friendly and cost-efficient method is a preferred alternative to conventional production methods, offering a sustainable solution to the supply-demand gap in propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. The Zn@S-1 catalyst shows good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving 24 propylene STY and 97% selectivity at 853 K. Zinc, as an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a promising alternative to scarce and toxic components in current PDH catalysts, highlighting PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and stability in its catalysts. By encapsulating nanoparticles within a nitrogen-doped carbon layer, PDH achieves propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 hours, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding the toxicity of Cr(VI) compounds and the need for ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of a ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's advantages, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods, as evidenced by its performance under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for a stable and cost-effective source of propane. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages over conventional propylene production methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. By utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, PDH benefits from a potentially more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH's higher yields and selectivity for propylene, especially from shale gas resources, efficiently meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional methods that struggle with feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. By not relying on specific feedstocks, PDH enhances process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, making it environmentally friendly. It has higher selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with minimal byproducts. This contrasts with conventional methods, which produce a range of hydrocarbons. PDH's use of propane, sourced from natural gas, ensures better feedstock availability and sustainability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, offering economic and environmental benefits over traditional naphtha cracking. It uses less energy and produces fewer CO2 emissions. With a Pt catalyst supported on alumina and a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues in conventional methods that cause catalyst deactivation.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages in propylene production, particularly in feedstock availability by utilizing propane from abundant shale gas resources, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to conventional methods, offering process efficiency and product selectivity benefits with competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. Propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020, with PDH, MTP, and WGSR as notable production techniques. However, PDH is seen as the most promising due to its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it ideal for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have increased propane availability, enhancing PDH's feedstock advantage.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower costs, and a more direct process, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active and selective catalyst further boosts PDH's process efficiency and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It efficiently activates CH bonds, ensuring longer reactive longevity and environmental friendliness. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is poised to address the global demand for propylene, offering improvements in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods. Notably, while Pt-based catalysts are widely used, they suffer from short-term stability and unsatisfactory propylene selectivity, highlighting PDH's potential as a superior alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the challenges of conventional propylene production methods. It leverages the abundant supply of propane from shale gas exploration, offering advantages in feedstock availability. However, the use of platinum-based catalysts is susceptible to deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that remain stable during cyclic coke combustion are desired to improve process efficiency and product selectivity without requiring oxychlorination regeneration. PDH's ability to utilize shale gas resources for propylene production highlights its potential in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is highlighted for its good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand cannot be met by steam cracking. The development of these catalysts addresses the challenges of conventional methods by offering a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology is gaining prominence due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation. This method is crucial for producing essential chemicals like propylene oxide and acrylonitrile. As conventional propylene production, such as naphtha steam cracking, struggles to meet increasing demands due to fossil energy consumption, PDH offers a solution with its efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising alternative.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas deposits highlight the potential of propane dehydrogenation (PDH) technology. Commercial PDH, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, faces challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, prompting a search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a promising solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability for the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting propane directly into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane as a feedstock, easily retrofitting existing facilities, and offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, effectively addressing challenges faced by conventional methods in light of growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially as it leverages the growing availability of light alkanes from shale gas and natural gas, addressing feedstock limitations faced by conventional methods. Despite being energy-intensive due to high reaction temperatures, PDH's challenges with selectivity and catalyst stability are mitigated by the effective active site isolation strategy.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the global demand for propylene, a vital industrial raw material. It utilizes widely available propane from shale gas, offering high conversion rates and selectivity to propylene under mild conditions. Zinc-based catalysts with moderate Ni content enhance catalytic activity and stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods. This technology specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a superior alternative for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional processes that are fossil fuel-dependent, emit CO2, and have low propylene selectivity. PDH specifically targets propylene, avoiding mixed hydrocarbon products. With fracking, PDH benefits from cheap propane-rich shale gas feedstocks. PDH plants are adaptable, enhancing profitability due to the price differential between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global propylene demand. Its endothermic nature is limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, can reduce costs by increasing single-pass propane conversion, achieved by adjusting reaction temperature and pressures. Suitable conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst exploration. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures availability and high conversion rates, enhancing efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional production methods. PDH's process efficiency is superior to steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which struggle with feedstock availability and efficiency. By utilizing alkanes abundant in shale gas, PDH specifically tackles these issues, making it a promising method for meeting the increasing demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane, addressing conventional method challenges. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, operating at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. Pt-based catalysts in PDH offer high propylene selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with low activity to CC cleavage. This process improves efficiency by operating at lower temperatures and pressures, reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. PDH offers higher product selectivity, minimizing unwanted byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. However, catalyst deactivation remains a challenge. PDH's direct dehydrogenation process avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it a more selective and efficient process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "PDH technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, face challenges but are being improved through the investigation of indium-based catalysts, which offer high stability and selectivity. Renewed interest in PDH is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of propane from shale gas. Ongoing research explores various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlighting efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH offers advantages over conventional methods, particularly in feedstock availability and process efficiency. Commercial PDH processes, utilizing either the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst or the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, are pivotal in addressing the challenges of conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This offers an advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher product selectivity, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. By specifically targeting the conversion of propane to propylene, PDH can achieve higher yields of the desired product, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing global demand by converting abundant shale gas-derived propane into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil cracking, PDH utilizes propane, enhancing feedstock availability. It offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane to propylene conversion with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner, more targeted, and cost-effective production method.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly addressing the growing global demand. It excels in feedstock availability, leveraging abundant propane from hydraulic fracturing, and in product selectivity by exclusively producing propylene. This proprietary process enhances efficiency and selectivity, crucial for meeting the forecasted 2% to 3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology has emerged as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have significantly lowered gas costs, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price differential between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. Dehydrogenation technologies, being on-purpose techniques, yield specific olefins with polymer-quality purity, offering an advantage over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into valuable propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The high catalytic activity and selectivity of CoSiBeta catalysts in PDH improve process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, affordable PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's potential to address product selectivity and environmental challenges associated with traditional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Shale gas extraction offers a cheap and plentiful propane feedstock, addressing feedstock scarcity. PDH inhibits overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over oxidative dehydrogenation. Its high propylene selectivity sets it apart from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The active Co species' state, tuned by Ti species, and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency faced by conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, propane, the raw material for PDH, is now more abundant and cost-effective, making PDH a superior choice for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, enhancing efficiency. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and single-product focus make it a competitive alternative to traditional methods, which struggle to meet growing demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to coking and particle sintering, PDH offers high activity and propylene yields, making it a viable solution to meet growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand by utilizing abundant propane, improving process efficiency and product selectivity without intermediate steps or undesired side reactions. This method avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, maintaining catalyst activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading solution for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency benefits. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing a direct, petroleum-independent route for converting propane to propylene, the most economical and shortest method available. However, PDH's high-temperature requirements, necessary for catalytic activity, promote side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. This highlights the need for catalysts with enhanced selectivity and stability under severe conditions, a critical challenge for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock (Quote [1]). Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions (Quote [2]). However, conventional PDH catalysts with CrOx or Pt species have drawbacks, including health risks from Cr(VI) and Pt sintering-related deactivation (Quotes [3], [4], [5]). Re-dispersing Pt with Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds is also environmentally harmful (Quote [6]). Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and supported Ru or Rh NP for high activity in propane dehydrogenation (Quote [7]).", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process for meeting the high global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses the challenges posed by conventional production methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources, offering cost-effective feedstock compared to naphtha. It boasts high process efficiency with a significant conversion rate of propane to propylene and high selectivity, reducing by-product formation. PDH's modular nature allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts are highlighted for their high activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, making them a promising choice for PDH technology, which is an efficient and cost-effective alternative to conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane resources and the significant price difference between propane and propylene. It addresses challenges faced by conventional methods, such as steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet growing demand due to depleting petroleum resources. PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without reliance on diminishing oil reserves, offering improved process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on less stable naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. Its modular plant design allows for flexible, localized production, making PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by focusing on the development of high-performance catalysts. This is crucial due to the growing demand for propene and the endothermic nature of the reaction, which requires high temperatures for high yields, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active catalysts like Pt or Cr. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, enhancing feedstock sustainability. PDH avoids coke formation, unlike non-oxidative direct dehydrogenation, and oxidative dehydrogenation with O2 (ODH-O2) avoids coke but risks overoxidation. Recent ODH-O2 catalysts using boron show high selectivity and activity. CO2 as a soft oxidant in ODH-CO2 is environmentally advantageous but yields are lower. Future catalyst design should improve propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and enhance CO2 activity in ODH-CO2. Research should prioritize low temperature CO2 activation. Developing lower energy routes to propene from green propane could transform its manufacturing landscape.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a preferred method for propylene production, addressing the supply-demand gap by utilizing abundant shale gas-derived propane as a cheap feedstock. It offers high selectivity to propylene, with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, and is eco-friendly and cost-efficient, making it an attractive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an alternative route for non-petroleum based propylene production, addressing the growing global demand. Using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, PDH emerges as an industrial solution. However, the scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium have led to the investigation of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. Zinc catalysts, like Zn-4@S-1, exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and selectivity of 97% at 853 K, showcasing PDH's potential to overcome challenges in conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability in propylene production, achieving about 90% propene selectivity at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream. This addresses the challenges of conventional methods by providing a more efficient and selective process, utilizing cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. The encapsulation of NPs in a nitrogen-doped carbon layer enhances catalyst performance, ensuring high propene yields and stability at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propene production, addressing environmental concerns by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. The introduction of a ZnO-based catalyst further enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and efficiency, demonstrating three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional methods under industrial conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its ability to use abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source of propane. This direct transformation from propane to propylene is more efficient than conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and a demand-supply gap. PDH's non-oxidative route offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, making it an emerging technology in the industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in meeting the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This provides more abundant and stable supply compared to naphtha used in traditional methods. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its capability to transform low-value propane into high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method specifically tackles challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using abundant propane, addresses the growing demand for propylene, offering higher efficiency and reduced CO2/NOx emissions compared to traditional methods. It ensures better feedstock availability, as propane can be sourced from natural gas, unlike oil-dependent naphtha and crude oil. PDH's energy efficiency and lower emissions make it more sustainable. Moreover, its high product selectivity for propylene, with minimal byproducts, makes it an attractive alternative, directly converting propane to propylene. This aligns with the need for more benign processes, as highlighted by the quote on propylene's role as a crucial raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly approach to propylene production, contrasting with traditional methods that require substantial energy and produce significant CO2 emissions. Utilizing an alumina-supported Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter, PDH achieves high propane conversion to propylene with superior selectivity and stability, effectively minimizing coke formation and sintering, key causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, especially in regions with abundant shale gas, as it uses propane as a feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, indicating higher process efficiency and product selectivity. These benefits contribute to PDH's competitive performance, lower costs, and lower toxicity, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene, essential for industrial applications, saw a demand of 116 million tons in 2020. Among alternatives like MTP and WGSR, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred method for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enhanced propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in utilizing this abundant resource.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers better feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable PDH catalyst further boosts process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It enables efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising propylene demand, despite challenges with Pt-based catalysts' stability and selectivity, as highlighted in the quote.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its potential in utilizing abundant shale gas resources for propylene production. Supported platinum-based catalysts, while active for PDH, face challenges with deactivation by coke deposition, necessitating frequent regenerations. The literature highlights the need for stable, anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without requiring oxychlorination regeneration, as coke deposition is inevitable under PDH conditions. This technology's ability to leverage shale gas resources indicates its advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand that cannot be further increased in the steam cracking process. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show promise for PDH, offering good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially addressing challenges of conventional methods by providing a more direct and efficient route to produce propene from propane.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production due to its abundant feedstock and reduced by-products, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet growing demands. Propylene, a key chemical precursor, benefits from PDH's efficiency and selectivity, making it a promising solution in the face of fossil energy consumption.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The increasing demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, hindering industry growth. Cobalt-based catalysts, however, show promise for PDH, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term viability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive processes like steam cracking, offering higher efficiency and reduced environmental impact compared to traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of affordable propane and butane, byproducts of petrochemical processes, as feedstocks. It can be easily integrated into existing facilities, offering higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, addressing challenges of feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Compared to traditional methods, PDH is more sustainable and economically viable, with higher propylene yields and minimized byproduct formation, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas availability. It addresses conventional method challenges by improving feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and prone to side reactions at high temperatures, leading to cracking and coking, the active site isolation strategy effectively tackles these issues, enhancing alkene selectivity and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, addressing global demand and utilizing abundant propane from shale gas. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity to propene under mild conditions, overcoming conventional methods' limitations. Zinc-based catalysts, non-noble and nontoxic, enhance catalytic activity and stability when Ni is introduced, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient choice for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without byproducts, addressing conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap propane feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology, and its factories' adaptability enhances profitability, aligning with the growing propylene market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas to address feedstock availability. It features efficient catalysts, like ZnO-based on silicalite-1, which enhance process efficiency and product selectivity, making PDH a promising solution to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, efficiently converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Its endothermic nature is optimized with suitable catalysts and conditions, closely achieving ideal results. Despite high energy consumption, PDH's single-pass conversion of propane reduces costs. By increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures, PDH enhances efficiency. Suitable conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically overcomes conventional production challenges by utilizing widely available propane, achieving high propylene yield with low by-product formation, thus improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to conventional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. PDH's process efficiency is highlighted by its thermodynamic properties, making it a more viable option. Efficient catalysts are crucial for high selectivity toward olefins, especially in PDH, considering propylene's lower stability relative to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene compared to conventional methods. It addresses challenges by utilizing abundant propane from various feedstocks, including natural gas and petrochemical processes, making it more environmentally friendly and direct. PDH's higher selectivity results in higher yields and lower production costs, making it a promising solution to meet global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It utilizes widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases, improving feedstock flexibility. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes offer superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds, leading to high propylene selectivity. Direct conversion of propane to propylene minimizes unwanted byproduct formation, while lower operating temperatures and pressures reduce energy consumption and potential greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas. It provides simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with existing technology. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, with Catofin operating at atmospheric pressure for energy efficiency. However, catalyst deactivation and stability remain challenges. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it a more efficient and selective process.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. Indium-based catalysts show promise for high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ongoing research on various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, further highlights efforts to enhance PDH technology.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH, using either the Oleflex process with PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst or the Catofin process with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst, faces challenges due to the high cost of Pt and environmental concerns with Cr. Developing cost-effective, eco-friendly catalysts is key to PDH's advancement, addressing limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a more abundant and stable feedstock, into propylene, unlike steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking which rely on limited feedstocks. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher propylene selectivity, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. This technology is particularly viable in regions with abundant propane supply, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising method for production, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, offering higher process efficiency and product selectivity. Unlike traditional methods relying on steam cracking of naphtha or fluid catalytic cracking of heavier oil, PDH directly converts propane to propylene, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in shale gas-rich regions. PDH's targeted conversion process results in cleaner production, meeting demand while minimizing environmental impact and maximizing economic benefits, making it a widely employed commercial solution.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly yielding propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts propane availability, making feedstock more affordable. Expected 2-3% annual growth in propylene demand by 2035 underscores the importance of efficient production methods like PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing conventional production challenges. Enhanced shale gas extraction via fracking has slashed gas costs, making it a preferred feedstock. The shift from naphtha to ethane for steam cracking in the U.S. has reduced propylene supply, increasing its price and favoring PDH. PDH's profitability hinges on the propane-propylene price gap, currently advantageous. As an on-purpose technique, PDH selectively yields high-purity olefins, unlike mixed-product conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. Its use of the CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates high catalytic activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. While supported CrOx and Pt catalysts exhibit high activity, they face issues of high cost, environmental impact, and rapid deactivation. The urgent need for a green, low-priced PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity to propylene underscores PDH's focus on addressing product selectivity and environmental challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing key challenges. It leverages abundant shale gas for cheap propane feedstock, ensuring availability. PDH curbs overoxidation, enhancing efficiency over ODH. Moreover, its high propylene selectivity distinguishes it from MTO and FTO processes, improving product quality.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, demonstrates high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity in propylene production. The active Co species' state and surface acid property contribute to anti-coke stability, suggesting PDH's potential advantages over conventional methods in addressing challenges of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With advancements in shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, propane feedstock becomes more abundant and cost-effective, making PDH a superior choice for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, enhancing process efficiency. It leverages abundant raw materials from unconventional natural gas, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH's lower production costs and single-product focus make it a competitive choice, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. Despite being endothermic and requiring high temperatures, which can limit C3H6 selectivity and cause coking and particle sintering, nanostructured catalysts improve process efficiency and product selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, enhancing propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive for propylene production, converting low-cost propane directly into propene with high selectivity. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand by utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock. This process improves efficiency and selectivity by bypassing intermediate steps and reducing side reactions, making it advantageous in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is the most economical and efficient method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene. It addresses the growing demand for propylene and the depletion of petroleum resources, offering a commercially viable alternative. However, the process requires high temperatures, promoting side reactions that decrease propylene selectivity and catalyst stability, presenting a significant challenge for industrial production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking technologies by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident from new plant constructions. However, conventional PDH catalysts have drawbacks: CrOx catalysts pose health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. Recent developments include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which, when promoted with metal oxides and supported by Ru or Rh NP, show high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation processes.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is recognized as the most efficient process for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages in process efficiency and product selectivity. It addresses challenges posed by conventional methods, particularly in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for on-purpose propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources, offering cost-effective feedstock compared to naphtha. It boasts high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative for propylene production with high efficiency and low cost, addressing limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane feedstock and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. Unlike traditional steam cracking and FCC, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, PDH ensures sufficient propylene supply without reliance on dwindling oil reserves.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from shale gas as a feedstock, reducing dependence on expensive and less abundant naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene in a single step with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. Its modular design allows for flexible and localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure or high transportation costs. PDH's high yields and lower operating costs make it a more economically and environmentally viable option for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional production methods. The endothermic nature of the PDH reaction necessitates high-performance catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, which are critical for achieving high yields of propylene at high temperatures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "Propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) is a promising method for propylene production, offering high spacetime yield over active Pt or Cr catalysts. It addresses conventional production challenges by using renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation, and improving process efficiency. PDH outperforms steam cracking and MTO in atom economy, toxicity, and sustainability. Oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH-O2) with boron catalysts shows promise for avoiding coke and overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with higher intrinsic activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation at lower temperatures, potentially transforming propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing the supply-demand gap due to high consumption of downstream products. It utilizes cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high propylene selectivity with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. PDH is eco-friendly and cost-efficient, making it an attractive alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is emerging as a significant industrial route for propylene production, addressing the global demand. The development of alternative catalysts, such as Zn@S-1, due to the scarcity and toxicity of Pt and Cr, showcases PDH's adaptability. Zn@S-1 exhibits good dehydrogenation activity, high propylene selectivity, and regeneration capability, achieving a propylene STY of 24 and 97% selectivity at 853 K, highlighting its potential for industrial PDH processes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high activity, selectivity, and stability for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, demonstrating PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst significantly boosts propene productivity, maintaining similar selectivity, under industrial conditions, demonstrating PDH's advantages over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, providing a stable and cost-effective source. Direct conversion of propane to propylene is efficient, offering process and product selectivity benefits over conventional methods, which are energy-intensive and often struggle to meet demand. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient and is an emerging technology addressing the challenges of conventional production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers several advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges faced by conventional methods. It utilizes propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. Utilizing propane from sources like shale gas makes PDH a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH can potentially offer higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to traditional methods, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and FCC processes. This method enhances feedstock flexibility, process efficiency, and product selectivity, directly addressing the challenges faced by conventional propylene production methods.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant propane feedstock, enhanced energy efficiency, and reduced CO2 and NOx emissions compared to conventional methods. PDH specifically addresses challenges by improving feedstock availability, as propane can be sourced from natural gas, and offers higher product selectivity for propylene with minimal byproducts. This makes PDH a more sustainable and attractive option for meeting the increasing need for this critical chemical raw material.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking due to lower energy consumption and reduced CO2 emissions. Utilizing a Pt catalyst with a Sn promoter on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a key method for propylene production, leveraging abundant shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based sources. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH offer superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity. These advantages make PDH a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, reaching 116 million tons in 2020, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as the most promising production method. It addresses conventional challenges by optimizing feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred pathway for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing further enhance propane conversion, underscoring PDH's role in utilizing abundant shale gas resources.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers direct propylene production, addressing the growing demand and providing better feedstock availability, potentially higher efficiency, and improved selectivity compared to traditional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. PDH's benefits include lower costs due to shale gas use, a more direct process, and the development of a selective catalyst, enhancing efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing the challenges faced by traditional production techniques.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability issues and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting challenges in conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, has gained prominence due to its ability to utilize abundant shale gas resources, addressing feedstock availability. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though susceptible to deactivation by coke deposition, are crucial for PDH. The need for anti-sintering catalysts that can withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration highlights efforts to improve process efficiency. PDH's advantages in utilizing shale gas for propylene production make it a promising method to meet global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially due to growing demand. Novel VOx/MCM-41 catalysts show good onstream stability and high selectivity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of propane and isobutane, suggesting PDH may offer process efficiency and product selectivity advantages over conventional methods. The development of these catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones, making PDH a promising route for propene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane feedstock and minimizing by-products. Propylene, a key chemical component, faces growing demand that conventional methods, like naphtha steam cracking, struggle to meet due to fossil energy consumption. PDH's efficiency and selectivity offer a promising solution to these challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale gas have spotlighted propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 and PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face restrictions due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, driving the search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a viable solution, with Co's earth abundance suggesting long-term sustainability for the PDH industry.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting propane into propylene with high selectivity, bypassing energy-intensive processes like steam cracking. It offers efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact, addressing challenges of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by leveraging affordable propane and butane, produced by various petrochemical processes, as feedstocks. It offers the benefit of easy retrofitting in existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. PDH addresses conventional method challenges with higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution for meeting the rising global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity for propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, higher yields, and minimized byproducts, making it a sustainable and economically viable option. PDH's energy efficiency and high propylene selectivity streamline the production process, reducing dependency on oil-based feedstocks and enhancing overall efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes from naphtha, spurred by shale gas and natural gas abundance. It tackles conventional method limitations, notably feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive, requiring high temperatures that challenge alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively mitigates these issues, as proven in practice.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and nontoxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Ni-modified ZnO supported Silicalite-1 zeolite enhances catalytic activity and stability, crucial for PDH's advantages over traditional Pt and Cr-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods which rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH's advantage is bolstered by the affordability of propane-rich shale gas, a byproduct of fracking technology. Additionally, PDH plants' adaptability and the growing propylene market's profitability, due to the price differential between propylene and propane, make PDH a highly attractive solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. Efficient PDH catalysts, like a ZnO-based catalyst on silicalite-1, demonstrate high activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2, addressing global propylene demand. Its endothermic nature is limited by thermodynamic equilibrium, but optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by enhancing propane conversion. Increasing reaction temperature and lowering pressures can improve conversion, aligning with equilibrium conversion trends. Suitable conditions are crucial for commercial viability and catalyst development. PDH's use of propane as feedstock ensures availability and high conversion rates, offering efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to MTO, FTO, and ODH processes. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking methods. This addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, making PDH a promising solution for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for propene production from abundant propane sources, offering higher selectivity and yields than conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing widely available propane as feedstock, offering high product selectivity and efficiency. Compared to steam cracking, PDH operates at milder conditions, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. This process, by directly converting propane to propylene, minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves efficiency through lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages over conventional methods by utilizing abundant propane from natural gas production. PDH provides simpler reactant and product distribution, requires less investment, and integrates easily with existing technology. Unlike conventional processes, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing energy efficiency and cost-effectiveness. Challenges remain, particularly with catalyst deactivation, but efforts are being made to improve stability. PDH avoids issues of deep oxidation and thermodynamically stable by-products, making it a more efficient and selective process for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, including those using indium-based catalysts, are being investigated for their high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research explores a variety of catalysts, such as Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, aiming to improve PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and the abundance of propane in shale-gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH processes, notably Oleflex with PtSn/Al2O3 and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalysts, address challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for cost-effective, environmentally friendly catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering several advantages over conventional methods. It directly converts propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, into propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. PDH boasts higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption than steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The process is simplified by being performed in a single reactor, reducing costs. PDH's higher efficiency and selectivity make it a sustainable and cost-effective option, particularly in regions with abundant propane supply, effectively meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising alternative for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand by converting low-value propane from shale gas into high-value propylene. Unlike conventional methods that rely on naphtha or heavier oil, PDH utilizes abundant propane, enhancing sustainability and cost-effectiveness. PDH offers higher process efficiency and product selectivity, directly targeting propane conversion to propylene with minimal by-products, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas resources, offering a sustainable solution to meet increasing propylene demand while minimizing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a leading solution, directly producing propylene without byproducts, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts feedstock availability, making propane abundant and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive propylene production and improved selectivity address conventional method limitations, crucial for meeting the forecasted 2% to 3% annual demand growth by 2035.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly reducing gas costs and making shale gas a preferred feedstock. The shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking has decreased propylene supply, increasing its price and creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is bolstered by the price differential between propane and propylene, making current market conditions favorable. An advantage of PDH is its on-purpose nature, yielding high-purity propylene, unlike conventional methods that produce a mix of products.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into propylene, offering advantages in feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst in PDH shows high activity and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. This addresses challenges such as high prices, environmental issues, and deactivation rates of other catalysts. Developing a green, cost-effective PDH catalyst with high reactivity and selectivity remains a priority, aiming to further enhance product selectivity and reduce environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its reliance on shale gas for a cheap and plentiful feedstock, its ability to prevent overoxidation, enhancing efficiency, and its high propylene selectivity, distinguishing it from MTO and FTO processes.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, significantly enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and demonstrating good regeneration stability in recycling PDH reactions. The state of active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing challenges of conventional methods. Enhanced by the abundance and lower cost of propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH is cost-effective and efficient, meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, using propane as a single feedstock to produce propylene, simplifying the process. It leverages abundant light alkanes from unconventional gas sources, ensuring a steady, cost-effective supply. PDH offers lower production costs and higher efficiency compared to traditional methods, making it competitive in meeting global demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, offers high propylene yields, addressing conventional production challenges. However, its endothermic nature necessitates high temperatures, leading to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts enhance efficiency and selectivity by tuning geometric and electronic properties, impacting propyl intermediate adsorption.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is economically competitive, converting low-cost propane directly to propene with high selectivity, addressing decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing market demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH avoids issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation, improving process efficiency and product selectivity by directly converting propane to propene, utilizing an abundant and cheaper feedstock.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering economic and process efficiency. It addresses the limitations of conventional methods by providing an alternative route not reliant on scarce petroleum resources. As a direct converter of propane to propylene, PDH is the most economical and shortest production route. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that facilitate side reactions like cracking and coke formation, leading to low propylene selectivity and rapid catalyst deactivation. Developing PDH technology to improve catalyst efficiency under severe conditions is crucial for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits over oil-based cracking by using cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock. Its growing role in propylene production is evident with new plants under construction. However, conventional PDH catalysts have issues: CrOx poses health risks, and Pt-based catalysts are costly and prone to deactivation. The use of Cl2 or Cl-containing compounds to re-disperse Pt is also environmentally harmful. Recent advancements include eco-friendly, cost-efficient ZrO2-based catalysts, which require metal oxide promotion and Ru or Rh NP for high activity in non-oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is emerging as a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock availability and process efficiency. The disruption caused by the availability of ethylene from natural gas and shale gas has necessitated on-purpose methods for propylene production. PDH, recognized as the most efficient process, addresses these challenges by providing a method that ensures product selectivity and process efficiency, making it a key player in the propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. Vanadium-based catalysts, highlighted for their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability, make PDH a promising alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, offering high efficiency and lower costs.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, leveraging abundant propane resources and capitalizing on the significant price difference between propane and propylene. This method specifically addresses the challenges of conventional production methods, which struggle to meet demand due to depleting petroleum resources, by ensuring sufficient propylene supply without reliance on dwindling oil reserves.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas, reducing dependence on costly and scarce naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity by directly converting propane to propylene in a single step, minimizing byproducts and energy consumption. Its modular plant design allows for flexible, localized production, ideal for regions with limited infrastructure. PDH's abundant feedstock, high yields, and lower operating costs make it a sustainable and cost-effective choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene due to its ability to operate at high temperatures, which is essential for high yields in endothermic reactions. Developing catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity is critical for PDH, addressing the limitations of conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers high spacetime yields over active Pt or Cr catalysts, addressing conventional production challenges. It utilizes renewable green propane, avoiding coke formation. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, limits overoxidation, while ODH-CO2, though environmentally advantageous, has lower propene yields. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity and CO2 activation, focusing on abundant elements. Research on lower energy PDH routes could transform propene manufacturing sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering eco-friendly and cost-efficient production. It utilizes widely available cheap propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product, addressing the supply-demand gap and outperforming conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, is an emerging route for propylene production, addressing the global demand by offering an alternative to petroleum-based methods. The scarcity of platinum and toxicity of chromium in current PDH catalysts have led to the exploration of zinc as a promising, earth-abundant, and non-toxic alternative. Specifically, the Zn@S-1 catalyst demonstrates good dehydrogenation activity, achieving a propylene selectivity of 97% at 853 K, and exhibits regeneration capability, highlighting PDH's potential for industrial processes and its advantages over conventional methods in terms of feedstock flexibility, efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers significant advantages in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It achieves high activity, selectivity, and stability using cost-efficient, environment-friendly catalysts without non-noble metals. At 600C, PDH catalysts demonstrate a propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion after nearly 6 hours, showcasing its efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers a greener alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine. A new ZnO-based catalyst enhances PDH's environmental compatibility and demonstrates three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to a conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalyst under relevant conditions.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas resources as feedstock, offering a stable and cost-effective source. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, addressing the energy-intensive nature and supply-demand gap of conventional methods. PDH's non-oxidative route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology in today's propylene production landscape.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in meeting the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This makes it more abundant and stable in supply than naphtha used in traditional methods like fluid catalytic cracking and steam cracking. PDH processes can improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts, potentially utilizing shale gas resources more efficiently. PDH offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene compared to conventional methods, making it a promising and advantageous technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, converting low-value propane into high-value propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by offering an alternative production route that doesn't rely on traditional, feedstock-dependent methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, which may have lower efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering high efficiency, environmental benefits, and improved feedstock availability. Unlike conventional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking from naphtha and crude oil, PDH uses abundant propane, derived from natural gas. This makes PDH less oil-dependent and more sustainable, as it consumes less energy and emits fewer CO2 and NOx. PDH's direct conversion of propane to propylene results in higher product selectivity and fewer byproducts, making it a preferred choice for meeting the growing demand for propylene, a crucial raw material for various downstream products.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a cost-effective and eco-friendly method for propylene production, surpassing traditional naphtha cracking. Using a Pt/Sn catalyst on alumina, PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common causes of catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology emerges as a promising method for propylene production, leveraging shale gas resources for feedstock, reducing dependence on oil-based sources. It employs vanadium oxide catalysts, offering superior reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional plants, thus enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Propylene demand reached 116 million tons in 2020, driving interest in PDH alongside MTP and WGSR. However, PDH is favored for its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits, making it the preferred method for high-value propylene production. Advancements in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered propane conversion from shale gas, enhancing PDH's feedstock utilization.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted as a promising alternative for propylene production, leveraging abundant propane from shale gas reserves. It offers advantages in feedstock availability, potentially lower production costs, and a more direct process for producing propylene, enhancing efficiency and selectivity compared to traditional methods. The development of a highly active, selective, and durable catalyst for PDH could further improve process efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It provides efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH improve propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, common in PDH, exhibit short-term stability issues and suboptimal propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses the growing demand for propylene by utilizing abundant shale gas resources. Supported platinum-based catalysts, though active, face challenges with deactivation due to coke deposition, necessitating frequent regeneration. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts that withstand cyclic coke combustion without oxychlorination regeneration are desired. PDH's compatibility with shale gas exploration highlights its advantage in feedstock availability, making it a promising method for efficient propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, is an attractive alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. These catalysts offer good onstream stability and high selectivity, potentially improving process efficiency and product selectivity compared to conventional methods. The development of these novel catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as the high cost of platinum-based catalysts and the toxicity of chromium-based ones, making PDH a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology stands out for its use of abundant feedstock and lower by-product generation, making it a promising solution. Propylene, a vital precursor for various chemicals, faces production challenges as conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking struggle to meet demands. PDH's ability to produce propylene with these advantages is attracting significant attention.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand and abundant propane reserves from shale-gas, PDH technology emerges as a solution, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Traditional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr toxicity and Pt cost, prompting a search for alternatives. Cobalt-based catalysts, abundant and effective, offer a promising pathway for PDH, enhancing long-term utility in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity. It bypasses energy-intensive steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, offering more efficient resource use and reduced environmental impact compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers key advantages for propylene production, utilizing affordable propane and butane as feedstocks, which are widely produced. It can be easily integrated into existing facilities, avoiding significant investment. PDH notably improves propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet the rising global demand for propylene, while overcoming limitations of conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, reduces energy consumption, and minimizes byproducts, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, driven by the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. This addresses conventional method challenges in feedstock availability, efficiency, and selectivity. PDH's energy intensity and high temperatures pose challenges for selectivity and catalyst stability, leading to side reactions like cracking and coke formation. The effective strategy of isolating active sites combats these issues, optimizing PDH's performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing propane from shale gas, is a cost-effective and non-toxic method for propene production, addressing global demand. It offers high conversion rates and selectivity under mild conditions, surpassing conventional methods in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Zinc-based catalysts, enhanced by Ni, improve catalytic activity and stability, making PDH a promising solution for industrial raw material production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, specifically targeting propylene without producing hybrid hydrocarbons. It overcomes conventional methods' reliance on fossil fuels, high CO2 emissions, and low propylene selectivity. Fracking has made propane feedstocks for PDH cost-effective, and PDH plants' adaptability enhances profitability, given the propylene-propane price difference and growing market demand.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from shale gas to address feedstock availability. The development of efficient ZnO-based catalysts on silicalite-1 boosts catalytic activity, stability, and propylene selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product quality.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, an atom-economic process, converts propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, a high energy-consuming process, benefits from increased propane conversion, which reduces costs. Suitable reaction conditions are vital for commercial success and catalyst development. PDH specifically addresses conventional method challenges by using abundant propane, achieving high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as an effective supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the large-scale exploitation of shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins compared to alternative pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. PDH reactions, including non-oxidative EDH and PDH, are thermodynamically limited and highly endothermic, providing process efficiency benefits over conventional methods that rely on SC and FCC. These conventional methods face limitations in feedstock availability and efficiency, which PDH specifically addresses by utilizing abundant alkanes in shale gas.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable and efficient method for propylene production, offering higher selectivity to propene compared to conventional methods. This results in higher yields and lower costs. PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by utilizing abundant propane from various sources, including natural gas and petrochemical processes. Its direct and environmentally friendly approach makes it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. It operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts. PDH's use of Pt-based catalysts ensures high selectivity for propylene, directly converting propane with low formation of byproducts like hydrogen and carbon monoxide, improving efficiency and reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant propane from natural gas and shale gas sources. It offers simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. Unlike conventional methods, PDH operates under atmospheric pressure, enhancing efficiency and cost-effectiveness. The process avoids issues of deep oxidation and COx production common in oxidative dehydrogenation, making it more selective for propylene. However, challenges remain in catalyst deactivation and long-term stability, areas of ongoing research.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like Catofin and Oleflex, is driven by the increasing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. PDH technologies, particularly those using indium-based catalysts, are being investigated for their potential high stability and selectivity, addressing challenges faced by conventional production methods. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, highlights efforts to improve PDH technology further.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves have sparked interest in PDH technology for production. Two main PDH processes exist: Oleflex using PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst and Catofin with Cr/Al2O3 catalyst. However, the high cost of Pt and Cr toxicity limit PDH's development, highlighting the need for more cost-effective and environmentally friendly catalysts as a critical challenge.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane as a feedstock, which is more abundant and stable than naphtha and heavy oil fractions used in conventional methods. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and lower energy consumption, simplifying the process by requiring only a single reactor, which reduces costs. This technology specifically targets propane conversion to propylene, leading to higher yields and potentially lower operating costs, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, converting low-value propane from abundant shale gas into high-value propylene. It addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity by directly targeting propane conversion with minimal by-products, offering a cleaner, more targeted production process. PDH's sustainability and cost-effectiveness, especially in shale gas-rich regions, make it a superior alternative to conventional methods relying on naphtha or heavier oil cracking.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, directly producing propylene without hybrid products, enhancing selectivity. Hydraulic fracturing boosts feedstock availability, making propane abundant and cost-effective. PDH's exclusive propylene output and improved process efficiency address conventional method limitations. With propylene demand projected to grow 2-3% annually until 2035, PDH's efficiency is crucial for meeting future needs.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising production method, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Demand for chemical building blocks, including propylene, has risen steadily, except in the Eurozone, due to economic downturns. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have led to cost-effective shale gas extraction, significantly lowering gas costs since 2005. This has made shale gas a preferred feedstock for transportation fuels and chemicals. The abundance of cheap natural gas liquids, notably ethane, has driven a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., with new ethane crackers and conversion of naphtha crackers. Ethane cracking yields minimal olefins other than ethylene, reducing propylene supply and increasing its price, thus creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is influenced by the price gap between propane and propylene, currently favorable. PDH's on-purpose nature yields specific olefins, not a mix, and industrial processes are optimized for polymer-quality purity.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology upgrades abundant propane to propylene, addressing feedstock availability. The CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high activity and selectivity, enhancing process efficiency and product selectivity over conventional methods. While CrOx and Pt catalysts are highly active, they face issues like high cost, environmental impact, and fast deactivation, highlighting PDH's advantages in product selectivity and environmental considerations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology excels in propylene production, leveraging abundant and cost-effective propane from shale gas for feedstock, inhibiting overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offering superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, directly addressing global demand challenges.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, offers high C3H6 selectivity over 95% and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in process efficiency and product selectivity for propylene production. The catalyst's enhanced performance and anti-coke stability make PDH a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high propylene selectivity, addressing the limitations of conventional methods with high energy consumption and low selectivity. The advent of shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction has made propane more abundant and cheaper, making PDH a cost-effective and efficient choice to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production, offering a simplified process with propane as the sole feedstock and propylene as the single product. This efficiency, coupled with the abundant raw materials from unconventional gas sources, ensures cost-effectiveness and a steady supply, addressing limitations of traditional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2021.112081"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- and CrOx-based catalysts, is a promising method for propylene production, addressing conventional method challenges. It operates at high temperatures, impacting selectivity and catalyst stability due to coking and particle sintering. Nanostructured catalysts, with tunable properties, enhance adsorption of propyl intermediates, improving efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/accountsmr.0c00012"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production by economically converting low-cost propane to value-added propene, addressing the challenges of decreasing fossil oil resources and increasing demand. Unlike conventional methods, PDH directly converts abundant propane into propene with high selectivity, avoiding issues of hydrocarbon cracking and coke formation. This enhances feedstock availability and process efficiency by directly converting propane, reducing the likelihood of undesired side reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62805-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, offering an economical and efficient alternative to conventional methods that struggle with feedstock availability and process efficiency. As a direct conversion method from propane to propylene, PDH is commercially viable and less reliant on dwindling petroleum resources. However, the process is highly endothermic and equilibrium-limited, requiring high temperatures that can lead to side reactions like thermal/catalytic cracking and coke formation, affecting propylene selectivity and catalyst stability. Developing PDH technology, particularly in enhancing catalyst efficiency under severe conditions, is essential for industrial propylene production.", "Doi": "10.3390/catal9020174"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering environmental benefits and efficiency over oil-based cracking. It uses cleaner natural/shale gas feedstock, reducing impurities. New PDH plants are increasing its contribution to propylene production. However, conventional CrOx and Pt-based catalysts have drawbacks, including health risks and deactivation. Eco-friendly ZrO2-based catalysts, promoted with metal oxides and supported Ru or Rh NP, have been developed for improved activity in propane dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-018-06174-5"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its efficiency and product selectivity, making it a promising method to meet the growing global demand for propylene. Unlike conventional methods, PDH addresses challenges in feedstock availability and process efficiency, particularly in the context of disrupted ethylene and propylene production balance due to natural gas and shale gas. As an emerging on-purpose method, PDH is efficient in propylene production, offering a solution to the current demand and feedstock issues.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.09.011"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for its ability to use abundant and cost-effective shale gas as feedstock, offering high process efficiency and selectivity for propylene production. It boasts a high conversion rate of propane to propylene, minimizing by-products. Its modular implementation allows for flexible production capacity and lower capital costs. As a non-oxidative process, PDH is gaining attention due to advancements in shale gas exploration. It is considered a high-efficiency, low-cost alternative to conventional methods like steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The literature highlights the need for non-noble metal-based catalysts, with vanadium-based catalysts emerging as a promising option due to their activity, selectivity, and regeneration ability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2022.07.017"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing the growing global demand and the limitations of conventional methods. It leverages the abundant supply of propane and the significant price difference between propane and propylene, making it effective in producing sufficient propylene without depending on depleting petroleum resources. Unlike traditional production methods like steam cracking and FCC, PDH ensures better feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, meeting market needs sustainably.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its use of widely available propane from shale gas as feedstock, reducing dependence on less stable naphtha. PDH offers higher efficiency and selectivity, directly converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts and lower energy consumption. Its modular plant design allows for flexible, localized production, making it a sustainable and cost-effective option.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2019.12.010"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the growing global demand for propylene, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its key advantage lies in the development of catalysts with high activity, stability, and selectivity, crucial for the endothermic propane dehydrogenation reaction, which requires high temperatures for high yields.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2015.01.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production for its high spacetime yield, achieved with Pt or Cr-based catalysts, and its ability to use renewable green propane, addressing feedstock sustainability. Unlike non-oxidative DDH, PDH avoids coke formation, reducing the need for regeneration. ODH-O2, using boron catalysts, shows promise with high selectivity but faces overoxidation challenges. ODH-CO2, while environmentally advantageous, requires catalysts with improved CO2 activity. Future catalyst design should enhance propene selectivity in DDH and ODH-O2, and CO2 activation at lower temperatures. Research and development of PDH using green propane could revolutionize propylene manufacturing.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1GC03700E"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology addresses the growing global demand for propylene by utilizing cheap, abundant propane from shale gas, achieving high selectivity to propylene with valuable hydrogen as a by-product. Its eco-friendly and cost-efficient nature makes it a preferred choice, offering a viable alternative to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, using Pt- or Cr-based catalysts, emerges as a promising route for propylene production, addressing the limitations of conventional methods. Zinc, an earth-abundant and non-toxic metal, is a viable alternative to scarce and toxic Pt and Cr catalysts. Zn@S-1 catalysts exhibit good dehydrogenation activity, achieving 97% propylene selectivity at 853 K, demonstrating the potential for industrial PDH processes. This highlights PDH's advantages in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a viable solution to meet growing global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jechem.2021.04.034"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering high activity, selectivity, and on-stream stability. Catalysts, without non-noble metals, achieve propene selectivity of about 90% at 44.4% propane conversion at 600C after nearly 6 h on stream, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.isci.2019.02.018"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a crucial alternative to oil-based cracking for propylene production, offering environmental benefits by avoiding toxic Cr(VI) compounds and ecologically harmful chlorine for catalyst regeneration. The ZnO-based catalyst in PDH shows three times higher propene productivity at similar selectivity compared to conventional KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts under industrial conditions, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41586-021-03923-3"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is promising for propylene production, utilizing abundant natural gas and shale gas as feedstock for stable and cost-effective light alkanes. Direct propane to propylene conversion is efficient, enhancing product selectivity and process efficiency over conventional methods, which often struggle with energy consumption and demand-supply gaps. The non-oxidative PDH route is more efficient, making it an emerging technology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2019.122423"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a more abundant and stable feedstock compared to naphtha. Catalytic PDH processes improve efficiency and selectivity by selectively converting propane to propylene with minimal byproducts. PDH's ability to use propane from various sources, including shale gas, makes it a sustainable and cost-effective option. PDH potentially offers higher yields and selectivity for propylene, efficiently utilizing shale gas resources and selectively activating CH bonds of light alkanes.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cej.2022.140726"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out for converting low-value propane to high-value propylene, offering an alternative to traditional steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking processes. This method addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1039/C4RA06277A"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a superior method for propylene production, addressing the growing demand and limitations of conventional methods. It uses abundant propane as a feedstock, unlike scarce naphtha and crude oil. PDH is more energy-efficient, emitting less CO2 and NOx, and has higher selectivity for propylene. This makes it a sustainable and attractive alternative, improving feedstock availability and reducing environmental impact.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.fuel.2021.121790"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers an economical and eco-friendly solution for propylene production, outperforming traditional naphtha cracking methods that are energy-intensive and CO2-emitting. PDH achieves high propane-to-propylene conversion with excellent selectivity and stability, significantly reducing coke formation and sintering, common issues leading to catalyst deactivation in conventional processes.", "Doi": "10.1002/anie.201507119"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology offers advantages in propylene production by utilizing propane from abundant shale gas resources, reducing reliance on traditional oil-based feedstocks. Supported vanadium oxide catalysts in PDH achieve better reactivity, selectivity, and regeneration stability compared to Pt-based and CrOx-based catalysts in conventional methods, offering process efficiency and product selectivity benefits. These catalysts also contribute to competitive performance, low cost, and low toxicity, further enhancing PDH's superiority.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0SC00690D"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as the most promising method for production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. Propylene, crucial for industrial applications, saw a demand of 116 million tons in 2020. PDH, alongside MTP and WGSR, garners attention, but its cost-effectiveness and environmental benefits make it the preferred choice for high-value propylene production. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have bolstered the conversion of low-valued propane from abundant shale gas, further enhancing PDH's appeal.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2NR02208G"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global propylene demand, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) emerges as a promising alternative, leveraging abundant shale gas feedstock. PDH offers enhanced process efficiency and product selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Its benefits include direct propylene production, potentially lower costs, and a more straightforward process. Focus on developing a high-performance PDH catalyst further boosts efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00470K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production due to its efficient CH bond activation, longer reactive longevity, and environmental benefits. Pt-based catalysts in PDH enhance propylene selectivity and catalytic stability, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.ces.2023.118450"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology holds promise for meeting rising global propylene demand, yet Pt-based catalysts, commonly used, exhibit short-term stability and poor propylene selectivity, highlighting ongoing challenges.", "Doi": "10.1002/ange.202003349"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, a highly endothermic process requiring high temperatures for propane conversion, addresses challenges in propylene production. It utilizes platinum-based catalysts, which, though susceptible to deactivation by coke deposition, can be regenerated through coke combustion. However, this process can lead to irreversible sintering of Pt species. Anti-sintering Pt-based catalysts, stable during cyclic coke combustion, are desired to improve process efficiency. PDH's renewed interest, due to increased propane supply from shale gas exploration, highlights its advantage in utilizing abundant resources for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2018.08.001"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, employing VOx/MCM-41 catalysts, offers good onstream stability and high selectivity, making it a promising alternative for propene production, especially where demand outstrips steam cracking capacity. The development of novel catalysts addresses the limitations of current technologies, such as high costs and toxicity, enhancing PDH's efficiency and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.05.022"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology for propylene production is gaining prominence due to its use of abundant propane feedstock and lower by-product generation, directly addressing the limitations of conventional methods like naphtha steam cracking, which struggle to meet the escalating global demand for propylene, a vital component in the production of various chemicals.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17451"},
{"DOC": "The surge in propylene demand and the abundance of propane from shale-gas deposits spotlight propane dehydrogenation (PDH) as a promising technology. Conventional PDH processes, using Cr/Al2O3 or PtSn/Al2O3 catalysts, face challenges due to Cr's toxicity and Pt's high cost, driving the search for new catalysts. Cobalt-based catalysts emerge as a viable solution, offering long-term utility due to Co's earth abundance, addressing the limitations of current methods and enhancing PDH's potential in propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcis.2021.03.023"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, directly converting widely available propane into propylene with high selectivity, unlike energy-intensive steam cracking or fluid catalytic cracking. PDH offers greater efficiency and reduced environmental impact, making it a superior choice for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.12.004"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology leverages affordable propane and butane, produced by various petrochemical processes, as feedstocks, addressing feedstock availability. It can be easily retrofitted into existing facilities, minimizing investment. PDH offers higher propylene selectivity and process efficiency, making it a promising solution to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing abundant propane as a feedstock, offers high efficiency and selectivity in propylene production, addressing challenges of conventional methods. It ensures stable propylene supply, minimizes byproducts, and is more energy-efficient and economically viable than traditional oil-based processes. PDH's high propylene yields and streamlined production make it a sustainable choice for meeting growing global demand.", "Doi": "10.1038/s41467-022-35698-0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is gaining prominence in propylene production, leveraging the shift to light alkanes as feedstock due to shale gas and natural gas abundance. It tackles conventional method challenges by improving feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Despite being energy-intensive and requiring high temperatures, which can lead to cracking and coking, PDH's active site isolation strategy effectively enhances alkene selectivity and catalyst stability, as demonstrated in Quote 5.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.chempr.2020.10.008"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is pivotal in meeting the escalating global demand for propylene, leveraging the abundant propane from shale gas. It excels in producing propene, a vital industrial raw material, with high efficiency and selectivity under mild conditions. This addresses the limitations of conventional methods by ensuring feedstock availability, enhancing process efficiency, and improving product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cjche.2022.02.015"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a leading method for propylene production, offering an on-purpose process that specifically targets propylene, unlike conventional methods that rely heavily on fossil fuels, emit CO2, and have lower propylene selectivity. PDH benefits from cheap feedstocks, thanks to fracking technology producing propane-rich shale gas. Its adjustable factories can run various reactions, making PDH highly profitable given the price disparity between propylene and propane and the expanding propylene market.", "Doi": "10.1039/D2QI00653G"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, utilizing abundant shale gas as feedstock, thanks to hydraulic fracturing advancements, addressing availability issues. Efficient PDH catalysts, such as ZnO-based on silicalite-1, exhibit high activity, stability, and selectivity, improving process efficiency and product yield.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.202101069"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, widely developed in recent decades, is atom-economic, converting propane to high-value propylene and H2. Despite being endothermic and equilibrium-limited, optimized conditions and suitable catalysts can closely achieve ideal results. PDH, though energy-intensive, reduces costs by increasing propane conversion. By adjusting reaction conditions, such as temperature and pressure, PDH can enhance efficiency and selectivity. Its use of propane as feedstock ensures availability and high conversion rates, addressing conventional method limitations in feedstock, efficiency, and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00983K"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, serving as a crucial supplement to traditional methods amid growing global demand for olefins. It leverages the abundant shale gas, offering exclusive selectivity to olefins over other pathways like MTO, FTO, and ODH. This selectivity addresses challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity faced by conventional methods. PDH's thermodynamic limitations and endothermic properties provide process efficiency benefits over steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking. The technology's ability to utilize alkanes as feedstocks specifically tackles issues of feedstock availability and process efficiency, making it a promising solution.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS01260B"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a sustainable, direct, and efficient method for producing propene from abundant propane sources, including natural gas and petrochemical processes. It offers higher selectivity to propene, resulting in higher yields and lower costs compared to conventional methods, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for meeting the growing global demand for propylene, utilizing widely available propane from sources like natural gas and refinery off-gases. PDH operates at milder conditions than steam cracking, achieving high propylene yields with minimal byproducts, enhancing efficiency and selectivity. The use of Pt-based catalysts in PDH processes boosts propylene selectivity by effectively activating paraffinic CH bonds. Direct conversion of propane to propylene in PDH minimizes unwanted byproducts, improves process efficiency at lower temperatures and pressures, and potentially reduces greenhouse gas emissions, offering higher product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/aic.17295"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is advantageous for propylene production, offering simpler reactant and product distribution, lower investment, and easier integration with current technology. The exploitation of shale gas and natural gas provides abundant propane, a key feedstock for PDH. Unlike oxidative dehydrogenation, PDH operates without oxidants, avoiding issues of deep oxidation and COx production, making it more efficient and selective. However, challenges remain, including catalyst deactivation and stability, which are being addressed through research. Commercial PDH processes, such as Catofin, Oleflex, and STAR, use different catalysts and pressures, but all highlight the benefits of PDH over conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/acs.iecr.9b01413"},
{"DOC": "Renewed interest in propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technologies, like those using indium-based catalysts, is driven by the growing global demand for propylene and the low cost of shale gas-derived propane. These technologies are being explored for their potential to offer high stability and selectivity, addressing limitations of conventional methods. Ongoing research into various catalysts, including Ga-, Zn-, Co-, Fe-, V-, Zr-based materials, and nanocarbon catalysts, reflects efforts to enhance PDH efficiency and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1SC05866E"},
{"DOC": "Growing global demand for propylene and abundant propane reserves in shale gas deposits have sparked interest in catalytic propane dehydrogenation (PDH) for propylene production. PDH addresses challenges of conventional methods by utilizing available feedstock more efficiently. However, the high cost and toxicity of current PDH catalysts limit its development, highlighting the need for cost-effective and environmentally friendly alternatives.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.11.026"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, utilizing propane, a byproduct of natural gas processing and crude oil refining, as a feedstock. This offers an advantage over conventional methods that rely on less abundant naphtha and heavy oil fractions. PDH processes are more energy-efficient, have higher propylene selectivity, and can be performed in a single reactor, simplifying the process and reducing costs. PDH's targeted conversion of propane to propylene leads to higher yields of the desired product, making it a more sustainable and cost-effective option for meeting the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2017.02.016"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. It converts abundant propane from shale gas into high-value propylene, offering a sustainable and cost-effective alternative to conventional methods. PDH achieves higher propane conversion and propylene selectivity, minimizing by-products and environmental impact, making it a cleaner and more targeted production process. This technology is particularly advantageous in regions with abundant shale gas resources, directly converting propane into propylene with high efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Amidst growing global demand for propylene, PDH technology emerges as a promising solution, directly producing propylene without hybrid products. Enhanced by hydraulic fracturing, PDH utilizes abundant shale gas condensates as feedstock, improving efficiency and selectivity. As propylene demand is forecasted to increase by 2% to 3% annually until 2035, PDH's ability to meet this demand with high selectivity and efficiency is critical.", "Doi": "10.1039/D0CS00814A"},
{"DOC": "Amidst rising global demand for propylene, propane direct dehydrogenation (PDH) technology emerges as a promising solution, addressing challenges in feedstock availability, process efficiency, and product selectivity. Demand for chemical building blocks, including propylene, has steadily increased in major markets, except the Eurozone, affected by economic downturns. Advances in hydraulic fracturing have enabled cost-effective shale gas extraction, reducing gas costs by 75% since 2005, making shale gas an attractive feedstock. This has led to a shift from oil-based naphtha to shale-based ethane for steam cracking in the U.S., with ethane crackers being built and naphtha crackers dismantled or converted. Ethane cracking yields mostly ethylene, decreasing propylene supply and increasing its price, creating opportunities for PDH. PDH's profitability is linked to the price difference between propane and propylene, currently favorable. PDH is an on-purpose technique, yielding exclusive olefins of polymer-quality purity, unlike conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr5002436"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is highlighted for its ability to convert abundant propane into high-value propylene, addressing feedstock availability issues. Its catalysts, like CoSiBeta, exhibit high catalytic activity and selectivity, surpassing conventional methods in process efficiency and product selectivity. While conventional catalysts have high activity, they face challenges such as high cost, environmental issues, and rapid deactivation. PDH aims to overcome these with green, cost-effective catalysts that maintain high reactivity and selectivity, making it a promising solution for meeting global propylene demand.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology stands out in propylene production due to its advantages in addressing global demand challenges. It leverages abundant, cost-effective propane from shale gas extraction, inhibits overoxidation for enhanced efficiency, and offers superior propylene selectivity compared to MTO and FTO processes, as highlighted by proprietary technology.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_0"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology, utilizing Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts, enhances propylene production by achieving over 95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability, addressing challenges in product selectivity and process efficiency. The active Co species and surface acid property contribute to high selectivity and anti-coke stability, suggesting PDH can be more efficient in utilizing available feedstocks compared to conventional methods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115"},
{"DOC": "PDH technology is a promising method for propylene production, offering high propylene selectivity and addressing the limitations of conventional methods. With the abundance of cheaper propane from shale gas and natural gas hydrate extraction, PDH becomes a cost-effective and efficient route to meet the growing global demand for propylene.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.mcat.2022.112580"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    