<example>
        <English> 
                The evolution of our understanding of coke deposition in Pt-based catalysts, as detailed in reference \[10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_4\], has underscored its critical impact on commercial catalysts. Efforts to comprehend and mitigate the adverse effects of coke formation have been multifaceted. The structure, composition, and location of cokes are pivotal in inhibiting their formation, yet the specifics of coke composition remain a subject of ongoing debate. The kinetics of coke growth plays a significant role in coke formation, but current models fall short of elucidating the mechanism at a molecular level. Strategies such as cofeeding gas, metal promoter, and support modification have been validated as effective in preventing coke formation. Cofeeding hydrogen, for instance, can eliminate coke precursors and diminish the acidity of the support. Promoters like Sn can fine-tune the catalytic properties of Pt from both geometric and electronic perspectives, enhancing activity and stability. However, determining the optimal type and loading of promoters remains a challenge due to the absence of a guiding principle. Modifying conventional support alumina can aid in the transfer of coke between metal and support. Novel catalyst designs, including single atom/site strategies and confined subnanosized Pt clusters in zeolites, have demonstrated exceptional resistance to coke formation. Despite these advancements, regeneration remains essential to extend catalyst life. Lowering regeneration temperature is crucial for cost reduction and activity stabilization. An urgent need exists for the integration of experimental and computational techniques to tackle the intricate issue of coke formation in heterogeneous catalysis.
                ※※※
                Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: The advancements and findings discussed in the file illuminate the multifaceted nature of coke deposition in Pt-based catalysts. Future research should focus on developing a comprehensive molecular-level understanding of coke formation mechanisms, refining promoter selection and loading strategies, and optimizing catalyst designs for enhanced resistance to coke. Moreover, the exploration of innovative regeneration techniques that can lower the required temperature without compromising catalyst activity is critical. Collaborative efforts between experimental and computational methodologies will be instrumental in addressing the complexities of coke formation, paving the way for the development of more efficient and durable Pt-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation.
        </English>
        <Chinese> 
                根据\[10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_4\]的详细研究，我们对Pt基催化剂中焦炭沉积的理解已经认识到其对商业催化剂的决定性影响。为了理解并减轻焦炭形成带来的负面影响，我们采取了多方面的努力。焦炭的结构、组成和位置对于抑制焦炭形成至关重要，但焦炭组成的细节仍然是一个持续争论的话题。焦炭生长的反应动力学在焦炭形成中扮演着重要角色，但现有的模型无法在分子水平上解释其机制。已经证实，共进料气体、金属促进剂和载体改性等策略可以有效防止焦炭形成。例如，氢气的共进料可以去除焦炭前体并降低载体的酸性。像Sn这样的促进剂可以从几何和电子角度微调Pt的催化性能，从而同时提高活性和稳定性。然而，确定促进剂的最佳种类和负载量仍然是一个挑战，因为缺乏指导原则。修改常规氧化铝载体可以促进金属和载体之间的焦炭转移。新型催化剂设计，如单原子/位点策略和在沸石中限制的亚纳米Pt簇，已经显示出对焦炭形成的出色抵抗力。尽管有这些进展，再生仍然是延长催化剂寿命的必要步骤。降低再生温度对于降低成本和稳定活性至关重要。迫切需要实验和计算技术之间的合作，以解决异相催化中焦炭形成等复杂问题。
                ※※※
                综合理解与未来展望: 文件中讨论的进展和发现揭示了Pt基催化剂中焦炭沉积的多面性。未来的研究应集中在发展对焦炭形成机制的全面分子水平理解，改进促进剂选择和负载策略，以及优化催化剂设计以增强对焦炭的抵抗力。此外，探索创新的再生技术，可以在不牺牲催化剂活性的情况下降低所需温度，这是至关重要的。实验和计算方法之间的协作努力将在解决焦炭形成复杂性方面发挥关键作用，为开发更高效、更耐用的Pt基催化剂用于丙烷脱氢铺平道路。
        </Chinese>
        <References> 
                10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_4
        </References>
</example>
