<example>
        <English> 
                The evolution of our understanding of coke deposition in Pt-based catalysts has underscored its critical impact on commercial catalysts, as detailed in reference \[10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_4\]. Efforts to comprehend and mitigate the adverse effects of coke have been multifaceted, focusing on the structure, composition, and location of cokes as key factors in inhibiting formation. However, the specifics of coke composition remain a subject of debate. The kinetics of coke growth is pivotal for formation, yet existing models fall short of elucidating the mechanism at a molecular level. Strategies such as cofeeding gas, metal promoter, and support modification have been validated as effective in preventing coke formation. Cofeeding hydrogen, for instance, can eliminate coke precursors and reduce support acidity, while promoters like Sn can fine-tune the catalytic properties of Pt, enhancing both activity and stability. Yet, the determination of the optimal kind and loading of promoter remains an unresolved challenge. Modifying conventional support alumina can aid in the transfer of coke between metal and support. Innovative catalyst designs, including single atom/site strategies and confined subnanosized Pt clusters in zeolites, have demonstrated superior resistance to coke formation. Despite these advancements, regeneration remains essential to extend catalyst lifespan. Lowering regeneration temperature is crucial for cost reduction and activity stabilization. An urgent need for collaboration between experimental and computational techniques is highlighted to tackle the intricate issue of coke formation in heterogeneous catalysis.
                ※※※
                Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: The advancements in understanding coke deposition in Pt-based catalysts have opened avenues for exploring novel methodologies and emerging fields. Future research should concentrate on refining the molecular-level mechanism of coke formation, developing more precise models that can predict and control coke growth. The optimization of promoter selection and loading, guided by a robust theoretical framework, is essential for enhancing catalyst performance. The design of advanced catalysts, such as those employing single atom/site strategies and confined Pt clusters, should be further pursued to minimize coke formation. Strategies for lowering regeneration temperatures without compromising catalyst activity and stability are critical for economic and operational efficiency. Collaborative efforts between experimental and computational disciplines are imperative to unravel the complexities of heterogeneous catalysis, particularly in addressing the challenge of coke formation. The integration of artificial intelligence and machine learning could offer new insights into catalyst design and process optimization, potentially revolutionizing the field of catalysis.
        </English>
        <Chinese> 
                我们对Pt基催化剂中焦炭沉积的理解不断深化，揭示了其对商业催化剂的重大影响，如参考文献\[10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_4\]所详述。为了理解并缓解焦炭的负面影响，我们从焦炭的结构、组成和位置入手，这些是抑制焦炭形成的关键。然而，焦炭组成的细节仍存在争议。焦炭生长的速率对焦炭形成至关重要，但现有的模型未能在分子水平上阐明其机制。已经验证，通过共喂气、金属促进剂和载体改性等策略可以有效防止焦炭形成。例如，氢气的共喂可以去除焦炭前体，减弱载体的酸性，而像Sn这样的促进剂可以从几何和电子角度直接调整Pt的催化性质，同时提高活性和稳定性。然而，确定最佳种类和负载量的促进剂仍然是一个挑战。修改常规氧化铝载体可以促进金属与载体之间的焦炭转移。创新的催化剂设计，如单原子/位点策略和在沸石中限制的亚纳米Pt簇，已经显示出对焦炭形成的出色抵抗力。尽管这些方法可以减轻焦炭形成，但再生仍然是延长催化剂寿命的必要步骤。降低再生温度对于降低成本和稳定活性至关重要。实验和计算技术之间的紧急合作对于解决异相催化中复杂的焦炭形成问题至关重要。
                ※※※
                综合理解与未来展望: 在Pt基催化剂中焦炭沉积理解的进展为探索新方法和新兴领域开辟了道路。未来的研究应集中在细化焦炭形成的分子级机制，开发更精确的模型来预测和控制焦炭生长。基于强大的理论框架优化促进剂的选择和负载对于提高催化剂性能至关重要。应进一步探索先进的催化剂设计，如采用单原子/位点策略和限制的Pt簇，以最小化焦炭形成。降低再生温度而不牺牲催化剂活性和稳定性的策略对于经济和操作效率至关重要。实验和计算学科之间的协作对于解开异相催化中的复杂性，特别是解决焦炭形成挑战至关重要。人工智能和机器学习的整合可能为催化剂设计和过程优化提供新的见解，有可能彻底改变催化领域。
        </Chinese>
        <References> 
                10.1021/acscatal.1c00331_4
        </References>
</example>
