I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Please cite this article in press as:
R.A.
van Santen,et al., Theory of surface chemistry and reactivity of reducible oxides, Catal.
Today (2014),http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2014.07.009
ARTICLE IN PRESS
G Model
CATTOD-9163;
No. of Pages 22 Catalysis Today xxx (2014) xxxxxx Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Catalysis Today j our na l ho me page:www.elsevier.com/locate/cattod Theory of surface chemistry and reactivity of reducible oxides Rutger
A.
van Santen a,b,,  Ionut Tranca b, Emiel
J.M.
Hensen b a Institute of Complex Molecular Systems, Eindhoven University of Technology, Den Dolech 2,5612
AZ,
Eindhoven, The Netherlands b Laboratory of Inorganic Materials Chemistry, Schuit Institute of Catalysis, Eindhoven University of Technology, Den Dolech 2,5612
AZ,
Eindhoven, The Netherlands a r t  i  c  l  e i  n f  o Article history: Received 31 March 2014 Received in revised form 2 July 2014 Accepted 10 July 2014 Available online xxx Keywords: Oxide catalysis Reducible oxides Chemical bonding Electrocatalysis Reducibility Quantum-chemistry a b s  t  r a  c  t The  increasing availability of computational data  from  quantum-chemical calculations on  the  reactivity and electronic structure of  catalytically active oxidic systems make a revisitation of the  classical questions on chemical bonding aspects of  catalytically reactive systems useful.
This Perspective paper  starts  with  a short review of the  different available systems.
The elementary reactions that  are  part of the  selective oxidation catalysis,  such  as substrate bond activation or  oxygen insertion,are  introduced.
This is  followed by  a discussion of basic electronic features of the  valence electron structure of  oxide materials.
We  will  initially  compare the  chemical bonding and reactivity of  compounds with  dominantly ionic versus  covalent bonding.
Surface reactivity descriptors for the  two  types of  chemical bonds are indicated.
It will appear  that,  except  for  longer range ionic interactions,binding to  the  metal cations is dominated by  local  covalent interactions and  that  ligand  field theory type  atomic orbital splitting as  well as rehybridisation are  important.
Trends in  bonding as a function  of position of  reducible  metal in the periodic system are  emphasized throughout the paper.
At the surface,  in  addition to  the  changes in  electronic structure,atom  position  relaxation and surface reconstruction effects  may also  have  a large  influence on  the  differences in  reactivity.
The reactivity of  the oxygen atoms varies.
They  can  be  proton acceptors and  generate Brnsted acid- ity,can assist  heterolytic or  radical  type  C H bond  activation or  when electrophilic will insert  into hydrocarbon double bonds.
At the  end  of the  paper  trends  in  catalytic reactivity  are  analyzed.
The  double  volcano type  curve found for the  dependence of  catalytic reactivity on  the position of  cation  in  the  third  row of  the  periodic system is  shown to  relate to the  distribution of electrons with high spin  over  the  ligand field  split  atomic orbitals of the respective cations.
This  will  be  discussed in  the  context of  classical catalytic results that are based on Balandin type  volcano plots of reactivity versus  the  catalyst material reactivity  parameters.
2014  Elsevier  B.V.  All  rights reserved.
1.
Introduction Energy production by combustion has been essential to the early rise of human civilization.
Currently the need to selectively produce energy without detrimental NOx production has become impor- tant.
It is one of the driving forces to develop new catalytic systems for total combustion [1].
Because of the temperatures involved,such catalysts will have to be heterogeneous.
Catalytic partial oxi- dation is an important route to convert natural gas into synthesis gas,olefins and hydrogen [2].
Also,to produce chemicals,selec- tive oxidation catalysis has become essential for the production of Dedicated to:
W.M.H.
Sachtler,founder of Heterogeneous Catalysis Leiden.
Corresponding author.
Tel.:+31
402473082.
E-mail address:
R.A.v.Santen@tue.nl
(R.A.
van Santen). chemical intermediates [36].
Catalysis for renewable energy pro- cesses as,for instance,the production of solar fuels is attracting increased attention nowadays [79].
The class of materials on which such catalytic processes are based are the reducible oxides.
Their surface chemical reactiv- ity and its relation to chemical bonding features will be the subject of this paper.
The purpose is to identify the relevant reac- tivity parameters of a material that determine its activity and selectivity.
As a start,this requires basic knowledge of the types of reac- tions that occur between reagent and catalyst.
We will initiate this paper with a short introduction of the different bond activation and oxygen insertion mechanistic steps that are currently known.
Whereas experimental information is essential,this is currently rapidly complemented by detailed computational chemical studies [1018]. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2014.07.009 0920-5861/ 2014 Elsevier
B.V.
All rights reserved.
Please cite this article in press as:
R.A.
van Santen,et al., Theory of surface chemistry and reactivity of reducible oxides, Catal.
Today (2014),http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cattod.2014.07.009
ARTICLE IN PRESS
G Model
CATTOD-9163;
No. of Pages 22 2
R.A.
van Santen et al. / Catalysis Today xxx (2014) xxxxxx It is specifically our goal here to review the new insights obtained from such calculations to highlight the relation between chemical reactivity and surface chemical bonding features.
We will emphasize chemical concepts and insights,mainly based on results of recent quantum-chemical computational data obtained from state of the art
DFT
calculations.
We  will not review details of such calculations here,but refer to the existing literature [1925].
It is worthwhile to mention that electronic correlation effects in reducible oxides are generally different from those in metals and molecules.
Computational quantum chemical methods are available that account for this.
They have been devised mainly by empirically adapting one center repulsion energy integrals of the localized d-electrons [26].
The chemical bond in a reducible oxide can be considered a bal- ance of covalent and ionic bonding interactions.
We  will introduce the ionic bonding view from computed electronic and reactivity properties of essentially ionic compounds.
We  selected TiO2 and CeO2 as prototypical reducible oxides dominated by ionic bonding.
Reducibility and water activation are reactivity aspects that we will discuss for these systems.
This will be followed by a subsection on materials in which covalent bonding dominates.
We  will discuss in detail the chemical bonding and reactivity of PdO,which is a prototype of a compound with dominantly covalent bonding.
We  will also discuss essential differences in the bonding between oxygen adsorbed to a metal sur- faces and that in the oxide.
We  will see that the covalent bond in the oxide has similarities with ligand field type bonding as in coordina- tion complexes.
Catalytic reactivity aspects of methane activation will be used to illustrate the reactivity of PdO.
A
section follows that uses now known concepts to the reader to analyze trends in chemical bonding and reactivity of the reducible oxide surface as a function of reactive cation position in the periodic system.
We  will see that generally an increase in valence electron count as well as of charge on the reactive cation will decrease the strength of
M
O
bonds.
The paper will conclude with a discussion of trends in catalytic activity.
The question is addressed of the observation of double vol- cano plots in the catalytic [27] as well as electrocatalytic reactivity of the first row oxides [28] when this is plotted as a function of the position of the metal along a row of the periodic system.
2.
The different types of elementary activation reactions in heterogeneous oxidation catalysis In this section as an introduction to the later analysis of the reac- tivity of oxide surfaces we will discuss some examples of catalytic oxidation reactions.
One can distinguish two different types of ele- mentary reaction steps.
In one type of reaction a
C
H
or
C
C
bond is activated by a surface oxygen atom,but the
M
O
bond is initially maintained.
In the other type of reaction an
O
atom is inserted into a
C
C
or
C
H
bond,and the
M
O
bond is fully broken.
As will be explained in detail in the following subsections,the first elemen- tary reaction,of substrate bond activation type,can occur with or without a change of the valency of the metal atoms.
In the sec- ond case the oxygen anion that inserts into a reacting molecule donates electrons to the surface cations and the formal valence of the surface cation(s) that release the oxygen atom reduces with 2 charge equivalents.
The different activation modes are summarized in Fig. 1 and will be discussed in the following subsections.
A
generally important question with respect to oxidation catal- ysis is whether reactions occur with a surface oxygen species of dis- sociatively adsorbed gas phase
O2,
or whether reacting surface oxy- gen atoms can be considered bulk oxygen atoms.
In the latter case the only function of O2 dissociation is to reoxidize the surface.
There is no need to be a correlation between the site where O2 dissociates and the site where (selective) oxidation of the reagent occurs.
This combination of reaction events is called the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism [29].
Experimentally this can be investigated by using isotope-labeled gas phase O2 molecules and to observe whether gas phase oxygen or oxide oxygen appears first in the product.
An important over all observation is that the products of the oxidation reaction are generally coordinately saturated molecules that have the singlet as spin state.
However,the reacting oxygen molecule has initially a triplet spin state.
In such a case the cata- lyst has also to take care of the required spin-flip and to relax the non-singlet spin state left on the catalyst after the reaction by fast consecutive electron spin-flip dissipation processes.
2.1.
Substrate bond activation As a


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do various support materials (such as SiO2, MCM-41, H-ZSM-5, Al2O3, ZrO2, and CeO2) and reaction conditions (including CO2 partial pressure) influence the activity, selectivity, stability, and mechanistic pathways of chromium oxide catalysts in CO2 oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, and what are the key challenges and trade-offs in optimizing their overall performance?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 