Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions (such as ethylbenzene to styrene and ethane to ethylene), and what are the key challenges in theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The preparation, properties, and catalytic applications of doped nickel oxide materials in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, with emphasis on the effects of dopants and vacancies on electronic structure, theoretical modeling challenges, and process optimization considerations.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts, with varying Nb contents, exhibit optimal ethane conversion to ethylene at 33% with 78% selectivity for 15% Nb at 350 C. Efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, and oxalate ions reduce NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, impacting catalytic properties. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Deactivation is attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation, with regeneration attempts unsuccessful. Challenges include theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts, prepared using citric acid to form a nickel-rich NbNi gel, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of a niobium-rich mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, impacting redox properties. Optimal ethane oxidative dehydrogenation activity and selectivity are achieved with 34 at.% Nb content, balancing high activity, selectivity, and stability. High Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the importance of the preparation method in optimizing structural and catalytic properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In nickel oxide-based catalysts, low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency, as per [2]. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb incorporated, forming a NiNb solid solution, and a Nb-rich phase, as described in [3]. The interaction between niobium ions and structural defects in NiO, as noted in [4], correlates with high ethylene selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, due to the formation of strong oxidizing oxygen species that prevent total ethane oxidation to CO2. Theoretical modeling challenges and process optimization considerations are not detailed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopants in nickel oxide catalysts alter the lattice constant, influencing oxygen species and ethane conversion selectivity in oxidative dehydrogenation. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants enhance oxygen bonding. A linear relationship exists between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption, confirming oxygen species' role in ethane conversion. Higher dopant valence correlates with initial selectivity to the desired product. Challenges include understanding oxygen species reactivity, optimizing dopant concentration and preparation, and ensuring safety and stability under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide-based catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr notably increases the surface area per gram, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Doping with V also boosts surface area compared to undoped TiO2. Zr-doped NiO exhibits improved selectivity to ethylene, makes the oxide less reducible, and strengthens surface oxygen binding, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants, optimizing processes for efficiency and selectivity, and ensuring safety, particularly in reactions like ethane to ethylene. Theoretical modeling difficulties, such as those encountered by DFT in describing NiO, highlight the need for improved predictive capabilities.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, such as ethane to ethylene, due to altered electronic structures. Niobium doping reduces activation energy and the rate of labeled oxygen exchange, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with oxygen replenishment differing between doped and undoped catalysts, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium filling these vacancies shifts the process to diffusion-limited, favoring nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these systems remain challenging due to complex reaction mechanisms and the need to predict dopant and vacancy effects on reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, prepared by incorporating niobium through the evaporation method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The Nb/Ni atomic ratio, varying from 0 to 0.67, significantly impacts the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, affecting the lattice constant and electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution, impacting the electronic structure. NiO crystallization is inhibited by niobium, resulting in smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading due to phase segregation. The introduction of niobium broadens the reduction profiles, increases total acidity, and generates new acid sites, enhancing catalytic performance. The Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst shows maximum niobium solubility, correlating with observed acidity. XPS analysis reveals surface composition changes, while electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into structural defects. Niobium doping suggests an n-doping character, modifying the electronic structure. Niobium oxide's n-type semiconductor properties influence catalytic performance. The reduction of p+ concentration by niobium ions affects excess oxygen accommodation. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation activity is significantly increased by niobium, with even small amounts causing a 100% increase in reactivity. A good ODH catalyst requires high ethylene conversion and selectivity at low temperatures, which is achieved by niobium incorporation. Ethene selectivity increases from 20% for NiO to 80% for Ni0.9Nb0.1, demonstrating niobium's impact. NiNbO catalysts exhibit high activity and ethene selectivity at high conversion levels, with stable catalytic performance. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts, with varying Nb contents, exhibit enhanced performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving 33% conversion and 78% selectivity to ethylene at 15% Nb content. The efficiency is attributed to the surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry due to oxalate ions from the niobium precursor. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is linked to decreased particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Deactivation, observed over time, is associated with reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 formation. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety remain key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for doped nickel oxide catalysts, particularly NbNiO nanocomposites, influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The niobium-rich mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Optimal Nb content (34 at.%) yields high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, while excessive Nb leads to catalyst deactivation. Preparation methods significantly impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for performance improvement through optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In nickel oxide-based catalysts, low-temperature treatment of pure NiO induces a non-stoichiometric oxidic phase with cationic deficiency. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. The interaction between niobium ions and structural defects in NiO enhances selectivity to ethylene in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, as vacancies facilitate the formation of strong oxidizing electrophilic oxygen species, leading to ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant valence in nickel oxide catalysts modifies the lattice structure, influencing the formation of electrophilic oxygen species critical for oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, enhancing ethylene selectivity, while higher valence dopants reduce it, favoring COx formation. A linear relationship exists between oxygen exchange rate and ethane consumption, confirming the role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The valence of dopants inversely correlates with non-stoichiometric oxygen, affecting ethylene selectivity. Theoretical modeling and process optimization challenges include understanding oxygen species reactivity and ensuring catalyst safety and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants ease oxide reduction, improving performance. Zr-doped NiO shows enhanced selectivity to ethylene, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling dopant effects and optimizing processes for efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, like ethane to ethylene, show reduced activation energy and altered oxygen species due to niobium filling cationic vacancies. This leads to selective nucleophilic oxygen species for ethylene production. Challenges include understanding reaction mechanisms, predicting dopant and vacancy effects, optimizing conditions for yield and selectivity, and ensuring safety at high temperatures and pressures. Niobium doping decreases the activation energy and exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. On undoped NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces these sites, favoring diffusion and nucleophilic oxygen species for ethylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions due to modifications in electronic structure. Prepared by the evaporation method, varying Nb/Ni ratios from 0 to 0.67, the incorporation of niobium causes a contraction of the NiO lattice, affecting the lattice constant and inhibiting crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes. At high Nb loading, segregation of NiO and Nb2O5 phases occurs, resulting in larger crystals. The introduction of niobium significantly increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites of weak and moderate strength, and leads to a 300% increase in acidity compared to pure NiO. The maximum solubility of niobium cations in NiO is attained for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, confirming the acidity is related to NiONb bond formation. NiNbO catalysts show high activity and selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, with a 100% increase in per weight reactivity and ethene selectivity climbing from 20% for NiO to 80% for the Ni0.9Nb0.1 catalyst. These catalysts combine high activity at low temperatures with high ethene selectivity at high conversion levels, demonstrating stable catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts, with varying Nb contents, are studied for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving optimal conversion (33%) and selectivity (78%) to ethylene at 15% Nb content. The efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by oxalate ions reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Deactivation, attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation, is slow but systematic. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful. Challenges include theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for nickel oxide (NiO) and NbNiO nanocomposites influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. NiO nanocrystallites exhibit redox properties crucial for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH), which are affected by the presence of a niobium-rich mixed oxide layer. At Nb contents >3 at.%, this layer inhibits NiO reducibility, impacting activity and selectivity. Optimal ethane ODH catalysts contain 34 at.% Nb, achieving high activity, selectivity, and stability. High Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the importance of the preparation method in optimizing structural and catalytic properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, nickel oxide-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. Interaction with niobium reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH. Vacancies generate strong oxidizing electrophilic oxygen species, leading to ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant valence in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impacts electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants reduce it, enhancing selectivity. Oxygen species' lability is influenced by dopant valence, with higher valence leading to more strongly bonded oxygen. A linear relationship exists between oxygen exchange rate and ethane consumption, confirming oxygen species' role in ethane activation. Selectivity to ethylene increases with higher dopant cation valence. Key challenges include optimizing dopant concentration and preparation methods for desired electronic structure and catalytic performance, ensuring safety and stability under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Zr-doped NiO exhibits enhanced selectivity to ethylene, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants and optimizing processes for efficiency and selectivity, while ensuring safety, especially in reactions like ethane to ethylene. DFT struggles with accurately describing NiO, affecting theoretical predictions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts, particularly with niobium, significantly alter electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, affecting ethane to ethylene conversion. Niobium doping reduces activation energy and oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation. Ethane oxidative dehydrogenation proceeds via a Mars-van Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between NiO and doped NiO, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium doping reduces these sites, favoring diffusion and the formation of nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these systems remain challenging due to complex reaction mechanisms and the need to predict dopant and vacancy effects on reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, prepared by incorporating niobium through the evaporation method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The Nb/Ni atomic ratio, varying from 0 to 0.67, significantly influences the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, affecting the lattice constant and impacting the electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution, altering the electronic structure. The incorporation of niobium inhibits crystallization, resulting in smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, larger crystals form due to phase segregation. The reducibility of the catalysts broadens with niobium introduction, indicating structural modifications. Niobium increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites, which significantly boosts catalytic performance. A 10% niobium addition to NiO results in a 300% increase in acidity. Maximum niobium solubility is achieved at the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, correlating with increased acidity due to NiONb bond formation. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing the p+ hole concentration in NiO, and the elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping enhances ethene selectivity. The NiNbO mixed oxide catalysts exhibit superior performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving high ethene selectivity and conversion at low temperatures with stable catalytic activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts, particularly NiNbO with varying Nb contents, exhibit significant performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal results, achieving 33% ethane conversion and 78% selectivity to ethylene, were observed at 15% Nb content. The catalyst's efficiency is attributed to surface interactions between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by the reduction in NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry due to oxalate ions. This reduction, caused by the use of ammonium oxalato niobate, impacts catalytic properties. A small Nb percentage enhances activity by decreasing active phase particle size and preventing sintering. However, above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Long-term studies reveal a gradual deactivation, linked to decreasing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety remain key challenges in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for NiO and NbNiO nanocomposites influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of a thin Nb-rich mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Optimal ethane ODH activity and selectivity are achieved at 34 at.% Nb content, balancing high activity, selectivity, and stability. High Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the importance of the Nb-rich phase's interaction with NiO under ODH conditions. Further optimization of the preparation method can improve NiO-catalyzed ethane ODH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, nickel oxide-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency, as per microscopy results. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, a precursor for NiNb2O6. The interaction of niobium ions with structural defects in NiO correlates with the high selectivity of NiNbO catalysts to ethylene, as these vacancies generate strong oxidizing oxygen species, leading to ethane's total oxidation to CO2. [1] Highly active and selective NiNbO mixed oxides for ethylene production via ethane ODH were characterized using HRTEM and EDS. [2] Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO results in a non-stoichiometric oxidic phase. [3] Nb-doped oxides form two distinct phases: a NiO phase with Nb cations and a Nb-rich phase. [4] The reduction of structural defects in NiO via niobium ions correlates with ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopants in nickel oxide catalysts alter the lattice constant, influencing electrophilic oxygen species critical for ethane oxidation. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants enhance oxygen bonding, affecting ethane activation. The inverse trend between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethane conversion to ethylene supports the role of dopant valence in selectivity. Challenges include optimizing dopant concentration for desired electronic structure, understanding oxygen species reactivity, and ensuring catalyst safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr increases surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Doped NiO with Zr shows improved selectivity to ethylene, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants and optimizing processes for efficiency, selectivity, and safety. Preparation methods also influence performance, as seen in Ce0.9Ni0.1O2 with varying conversion rates. The presence of Ni vacancies creates p-conductivity, affecting catalytic behavior. Theoretical modeling, such as DFT, faces difficulties in accurately describing NiO, impacting predictions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts, prepared by various methods, show enhanced performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, such as ethane to ethylene, due to altered electronic structures. Niobium doping reduces activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between NiO and doped NiO, leading to distinct oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills these vacancies, reducing active sites and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms and predicting dopant and vacancy effects on reactivity. Process optimization must balance efficiency, selectivity, and safety at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, prepared by incorporating niobium through the evaporation method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The varying Nb/Ni ratio, from 0 to 0.67, influences the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, evidenced by a decrease in lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, affecting the electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ dissolution, impacting the electronic structure. Niobium modifies the reducibility and increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites, which significantly boosts catalytic performance. The introduction of 10% niobium increases acidity by almost 300% compared to pure NiO. NiONb bond formation, confirmed for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, correlates with observed acidity changes. XPS analysis reveals surface composition modifications, while electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into structural defects. Niobium's n-doping character reduces the p+ concentration, affecting the amount of excess oxygen the surface can accommodate. NiNbO catalysts show high activity and selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, with a 100% increase in reactivity and ethene selectivity climbing from 20% for NiO to 80% for the Ni0.9Nb0.1 catalyst. These catalysts combine high activity at low temperatures with high ethene selectivity at high conversion levels, demonstrating stable catalytic performance. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing excess oxygen and enhancing ethene selectivity, likely due to the elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts with varying Nb contents have been optimized for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving 33% conversion and 78% selectivity to ethylene at 15% Nb content and 350 C. The efficiency is attributed to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, and the reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry due to oxalate ions. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is linked to decreased particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Deactivation is gradual, caused by reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 formation, with regeneration attempts unsuccessful. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety remain key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation of Nb-doped NiO nanocomposites influences their electronic structure and catalytic performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The niobium-rich phase inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Optimal activity and selectivity are achieved at 34 at.% Nb, balancing high activity with stability. Preparation methods significantly impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for performance improvement through optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO induces structural defects due to cationic deficiency, as observed in microscopy studies. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice, forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, a precursor for NiNb2O6. The interaction of niobium ions with structural defects in NiO enhances ethylene selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, as vacancies lead to strong oxidizing oxygen species, promoting ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and vacancy formation in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants reduce it, enhancing selectivity. The valence of dopants modifies the lattice constant, influencing the formation of electrophilic oxygen species, which are crucial for ethane conversion. A linear relationship exists between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption, confirming the role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The challenge lies in optimizing dopant concentration and preparation methods to achieve desired electronic structure and catalytic performance, while ensuring safety and stability under reaction conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr notably increases surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Zr-doped NiO exhibits enhanced selectivity to ethylene, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants and optimizing processes for efficiency, selectivity, and safety. The presence of Ni vacancies creates a p-conductivity effect, and theoretical modeling struggles with the accurate description of NiO, affecting predictions.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts, prepared with specific methods and dopant concentrations, show enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, such as ethane to ethylene conversion. Niobium doping reduces activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species that cause total ethane oxidation. The ethane ODH reaction follows a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with oxygen replenishment differing between doped and undoped catalysts, leading to selective ethylene production. Niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites for oxygen dissociation and promoting diffusion as the rate-determining step. This results in a surface rich in nucleophilic oxygen species, favoring ethane to ethylene conversion. Key challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms, predicting dopant and vacancy effects on electronic structure and reactivity, optimizing conditions for yield and selectivity, and ensuring safe operation at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, prepared by incorporating niobium through the evaporation method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The Nb/Ni atomic ratio, varying from 0 to 0.67, significantly impacts the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation causes a contraction of the NiO lattice, affecting the lattice constant and electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution, influencing the electronic structure. NiO crystallization is inhibited by niobium, leading to smaller grain sizes, but larger crystals form at high Nb loading due to phase segregation. The introduction of niobium broadens the reduction profiles, indicating catalyst modifications. Niobium increases total acidity, generating new acid sites, which is crucial for catalytic performance. A 10% niobium addition to NiO results in a 300% increase in acidity. Maximum niobium solubility in NiO is achieved at a specific ratio, confirming acidity's relation to NiONb bond formation. Surface composition analysis by XPS reveals insights into electronic structure and catalytic activity. Electrical conductivity measurements provide information on structural defects and oxidizing species. Niobium's incorporation suggests n-doping, affecting electronic structure. Niobium oxide's nonstoichiometry influences electronic properties. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, impacting excess oxygen accommodation. NiNbO catalysts show high activity and selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, with niobium enhancing reactivity and ethene selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. Excess oxygen's inverse correlation with ethylene selectivity highlights the importance of controlling electronic structure. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping is responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts, particularly NiNbO with varying Nb contents, are studied for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal ethane conversion (33%) with high ethylene selectivity (78%) is achieved at 15% Nb content at 350 C. Efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and influencing catalytic properties. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, inactive NiNb2O6 forms. Deactivation is attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful. Challenges include theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for nickel oxide catalysts, doped with niobium, influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Niobium-rich mixed oxide layers inhibit NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Optimal Nb content (34 at.%) yields high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, with the Nb-rich phase covering unselective active oxygen species of NiO. Preparation methods significantly impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for performance improvement through optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts' preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency, leading to structural defects. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. Interaction with niobium ions reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH, as vacancies generate strong oxidizing oxygen species, causing ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and vacancy formation in nickel oxide catalysts impact electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants enhance initial selectivity to the desired product. The valence of dopants modifies the lattice constant, influencing the formation of electrophilic oxygen species crucial for ethane conversion. High valence dopants result in more strongly bonded oxygen species, affecting their lability. A linear relationship between oxygen exchange rate and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. The inverse trend between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethane conversion to ethylene supports the role of dopant valence. Challenges include understanding oxygen species reactivity, optimizing dopant concentration and preparation methods, and ensuring catalyst safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, affecting electronic structure and catalytic efficiency. Systematic studies on doped oxides are scarce, with few cases exploring a range of dopants under various conditions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants ease oxide reduction, potentially improving performance. V-doped catalysts have greater surface area than undoped TiO2. Ni-doped ceria shows higher conversion and similar selectivity for ethylbenzene to styrene. Zr-doped NiO improves selectivity to ethylene, makes the oxide less reducible, and strengthens surface oxygen binding, aligning with theoretical predictions. Theoretical modeling faces challenges in accurately predicting dopant effects, complicating process optimization for efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts' preparation, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, affecting efficiency, selectivity, and safety. Niobium doping reduces activation energy and exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, leading to varied oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies creates electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium filling these vacancies reduces active sites, favoring diffusion and nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling challenges include predicting dopant and vacancy effects on electronic structure and reactivity, optimizing reaction conditions for yield and selectivity, and ensuring safe high-temperature and pressure operation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Preparation methods, such as the evaporation technique, allow for varying Nb/Ni atomic ratios, impacting the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, affecting the lattice constant and electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution, influencing the electronic structure. Niobium modifies the NiO structure, inhibiting crystallization and affecting grain size. The introduction of niobium broadens the reduction profiles, indicating catalyst modifications. It significantly increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites, which can enhance catalytic performance. The Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst shows maximum solubility, confirming acidity related to NiONb bonds. XPS analysis reveals surface composition changes, while electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into structural defects. Niobium doping suggests an n-doping character, impacting the electronic structure. Niobium oxide, as an n-type semiconductor, influences electronic properties. The incorporation of niobium reduces p+ concentration, affecting excess oxygen accommodation. In ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, NiNbO catalysts show high activity and ethene selectivity at low temperatures. Small amounts of niobium increase per weight reactivity compared to pure NiO. A good ODH catalyst requires effective ethane-to-ethylene conversion at low temperatures with high selectivity. Niobium incorporation boosts ethene selectivity, demonstrating its impact on selectivity. Developed NiNbO catalysts combine high activity and selectivity, with stable catalytic performance. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts with 15% Nb content achieve optimal ethane conversion (33%) and selectivity to ethylene (78%) at 350 C. The efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, and the reduction of NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry by oxalate ions. Optimal activity is due to decreased particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Deactivation is attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful. Key challenges involve theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for nickel oxide catalysts, doped with niobium, influence their redox properties and performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. NiO crystallite size and the niobium-rich phase's coverage on active oxygen species affect activity and selectivity. High Nb content leads to catalyst deactivation, whereas 34 at.% Nb optimizes activity, selectivity, and stability. Preparation methods significantly impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for performance improvement through optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In nickel oxide-based catalysts, low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency, leading to structural defects. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. The interaction between niobium ions and structural defects in NiO enhances ethylene selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation by reducing defects, which otherwise form strong oxidizing oxygen species, causing total ethane oxidation to CO2. Theoretical modeling challenges and process optimization considerations are not explicitly discussed.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and vacancy formation in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, enhancing ethylene selectivity, while higher valence dopants reduce it, favoring ethylene production. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The correlation between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethane conversion efficiency supports the influence of dopant valence. Key challenges include optimizing dopant concentration, understanding oxygen species reactivity, and ensuring catalyst safety and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide-based catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Systematic studies of doped oxides are scarce, with few examples of a single host oxide being doped with various elements and tested under diverse conditions. Doping with Fe or Zr notably increases the surface area per gram, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) facilitate oxide reduction, potentially improving performance. Doped NiO with Zr exhibits improved selectivity to ethylene, makes the oxide less reducible, and binds surface oxygen more strongly, aligning with theoretical predictions. The presence of a Ni vacancy creates a deficit of electrons, contributing to p-conductivity. Challenges include accurately predicting dopant effects through theoretical modeling and optimizing processes for efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts' preparation, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Niobium doping reduces activation energy and the exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Mars van Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between oxides, affecting product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies leads to electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium filling these vacancies reduces active sites, favoring diffusion and nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms and dopant effects on electronic structure and reactivity. Process optimization must balance efficiency, selectivity, and safety at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The evaporation method is used to prepare mixed NiNbO oxides with varying Nb/Ni ratios, affecting the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, evidenced by a decrease in the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176 (Quote 3). At high Nb loading, the maximum dissolution of Nb5+ cations is reached, impacting the electronic structure. The incorporation of niobium inhibits crystallization, resulting in smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb content, segregation of NiO and Nb2O5 phases occurs, leading to larger crystals (Quote 6). The introduction of niobium significantly increases the total acidity of the catalysts, generating new acid sites of weak and moderate strength. For instance, adding only 10% of Nb to NiO leads to a 300% increase in acidity (Quote 11). In ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, even small amounts of Nb in NiO cause a 100% increase in per weight reactivity compared to pure NiO (Quote 18). The selectivity to ethene is dramatically improved, climbing from 20% for NiO to 80% for the Ni0.9Nb0.1 catalyst (Quote 21). These findings highlight the critical role of dopant concentration in optimizing the electronic structure and catalytic performance of nickel oxide-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    