Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions (such as ethylbenzene to styrene and ethane to ethylene), and what are the key challenges in theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these catalytic systems?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The preparation, properties, and catalytic applications of doped nickel oxide materials in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, with emphasis on the effects of dopants and vacancies on electronic structure, theoretical modeling challenges, and process optimization considerations.'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts with varying Nb contents have been studied for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving optimal conversion (33%) and selectivity (78%) to ethylene at 15% Nb content. The catalyst's efficiency is linked to the surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, with oxalate ions reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. The optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to decreased particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Long-term deactivation is attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Attempts to regenerate the catalysts have been unsuccessful. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety remain key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation of NiO and NbNiO nanocomposites impacts electronic structure and catalytic performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. The Nb-rich phase inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Optimal activity, selectivity, and stability are achieved at 34 at.% Nb content, balancing coverage of active oxygen species and catalyst deactivation. Preparation methods significantly influence structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for performance improvement through optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, nickel oxide-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency, as observed by microscopy. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, a precursor for NiNb2O6. The interaction between niobium ions and structural defects in NiO enhances ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH, as vacancies lead to strong oxidizing oxygen species, promoting ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and vacancy formation in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Different dopant valences modify the lattice constant, influencing the formation of electrophilic oxygen species crucial for ethane conversion. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants enhance initial selectivity to the desired product. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the active role of oxygen species in ethane activation. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding oxygen species reactivity, optimizing dopant concentration for desired performance, and ensuring catalyst safety. Balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety is key in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Doping with V increases surface area compared to undoped TiO2. Zr-doped NiO exhibits improved selectivity to ethylene, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants and optimizing processes for efficiency, selectivity, and safety. DFT struggles with NiO description, affecting theoretical predictions. Zr doping decreases ethane oxidation and raises the temperature for hydrogen consumption, making the oxide less reactive.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactions due to reduced activation energy and altered oxygen species. Niobium doping decreases electrophilic active oxygen, favoring ethylene production over total ethane oxidation. The reaction proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with distinct oxygen replenishment routes leading to varied surface oxygen species and product distribution. On undoped NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies creates electrophilic oxygen, whereas niobium doping reduces these sites, promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms and predicting dopant and vacancy effects on electronic structure and reactivity. Process optimization must balance efficiency, selectivity, and safety at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The incorporation of niobium through the evaporation method, varying the Nb/Ni atomic ratio, affects the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium causes a contraction of the NiO lattice, impacting the lattice constant and influencing the electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit to the dissolution of Nb5+ cations, affecting the electronic structure. The incorporation of niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, larger crystals form due to phase segregation. The reducibility of the catalysts is broadened upon niobium introduction, indicating modifications. Niobium significantly increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites, which can enhance catalytic performance. The introduction of 10% niobium leads to a 300% increase in acidity compared to pure NiO. Maximum solubility of niobium cations is attained for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, confirming the acidity is related to NiONb bond formation. XPS reveals surface composition changes, while electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into structural defects. Niobium doping suggests an n-doping character, affecting the electronic structure. Niobium oxide is an n-type semiconductor with nonstoichiometry, impacting the electronic properties. The incorporation of niobium reduces the p+ concentration, affecting the amount of excess oxygen on the surface. The activity of NiNbO catalysts in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation shows enhanced reactivity and selectivity upon niobium incorporation. A 100% increase in per weight reactivity is observed with even small amounts of niobium. A good ODH catalyst should convert ethane to ethylene at low temperature with high selectivity, which is achieved by the developed NiNbO catalysts, combining high activity and selectivity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing the p+ hole concentration. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen due to Nb doping is likely responsible for the high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts with varying Nb contents have been studied for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving optimal conversion of 33% to ethylene at 15% Nb content. The efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to decreased particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15%, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Deactivation is attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation, with regeneration attempts unsuccessful. Key challenges include modeling, optimizing efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for nickel oxide (NiO) and Nb-doped NiO nanocomposites influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH). The presence of a thin niobium-rich mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. At optimal Nb content (34 at.%), the catalysts exhibit high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane ODH. High Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation, indicating the importance of the Nb-rich phase's coverage on active oxygen species of NiO. The preparation method significantly impacts the structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for performance improvement through optimization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency, leading to structural defects. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. Interaction with niobium ions reduces structural defects, correlating with high ethylene selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, as vacancies form strong oxidizing oxygen species, favoring ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and vacancy formation in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Different valence dopants modify the lattice constant, influencing the formation of electrophilic oxygen species. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants reduce it, enhancing selectivity. Oxygen species' lability is also affected, with high valence dopants creating more strongly bonded oxygen. A linear relationship exists between oxygen exchange rates and ethane consumption, confirming oxygen species' role in ethane conversion. Higher dopant valence correlates with initial selectivity to the desired product. Challenges include understanding oxygen species' reactivity, optimizing dopant concentration and preparation methods, and ensuring catalyst safety and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr notably increases surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Zr-doped NiO exhibits enhanced selectivity to ethylene, reduced reducibility, and stronger surface oxygen binding, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants and optimizing processes for efficiency, selectivity, and safety. Theoretical modeling struggles with the accurate description of NiO, affecting predictions. Preparation methods also influence catalytic performance, with different techniques yielding varying conversion rates. Vacancy formation, particularly Ni vacancies, contributes to p-conductivity, affecting the material's electronic properties.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts show enhanced performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, such as ethane to ethylene conversion, due to altered electronic structures. Niobium doping reduces activation energy and the rate of labeled oxygen exchange, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. The ethane ODH reaction follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism on both oxides, but oxygen replenishment differs, leading to distinct surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium doping fills these vacancies, favoring diffusion and promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms and predicting dopant and vacancy effects on electronic structure and reactivity. Process optimization must balance efficiency, selectivity, and safety at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, prepared by incorporating niobium through the evaporation method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The Nb/Ni atomic ratio, varying from 0 to 0.67, influences the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, affecting the electronic structure. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution, impacting the electronic properties. The incorporation of niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, larger crystals form due to phase segregation. Niobium broadens the reduction profiles, indicating catalyst modifications. It significantly increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites, which enhances catalytic performance. The introduction of 10% niobium increases acidity by almost 300% compared to pure NiO. Maximum niobium solubility is attained at a specific ratio, confirming acidity's relation to NiONb bonds. XPS reveals surface composition changes, while electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into structural defects. Niobium's n-doping character reduces the p+ concentration, affecting excess oxygen accommodation. NiNbO catalysts show high activity and ethene selectivity at low temperatures, with stable performance. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen due to Nb doping is likely responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts with varying Nb contents have been studied for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving optimal conversion (33%) and selectivity (78%) to ethylene at 15% Nb content. The efficiency is attributed to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Long-term deactivation is due to decreasing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation, with regeneration attempts unsuccessful. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety remain key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for NiO and NbNiO nanocomposites influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of a thin niobium-rich mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Optimal ethane oxidative dehydrogenation activity and selectivity are achieved at 34 at.% Nb content, balancing high activity, selectivity, and stability. High Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the importance of the Nb-rich phase's interaction with NiO. Further optimization of the preparation method can improve NiO-catalyzed ethane oxidative dehydrogenation performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts' preparation, properties, and catalytic applications in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions are influenced by dopant concentrations and vacancy formation. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. Defect reduction via niobium interaction correlates with high ethylene selectivity in ethane ODH, as vacancies generate strong oxidizing oxygen species, leading to ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopants in nickel oxide catalysts alter the lattice constant, impacting electrophilic oxygen species and ethane conversion. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene selectivity, while higher valence dopants reduce it. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the role of oxygen species in ethane activation. Higher dopant valence enhances initial selectivity to ethylene. Challenges include understanding oxygen species reactivity, optimizing dopant concentration, and ensuring catalyst safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide-based catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Systematic studies are scarce, with few examples of a single host oxide being doped with various dopants and tested under diverse conditions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts the surface area per gram, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) facilitate oxide reduction, potentially improving performance. Doping with V increases surface area compared to undoped TiO2. Ni-doped ceria shows improved conversion for ethylbenzene to styrene. Zr-doped NiO enhances selectivity to ethylene, makes the oxide less reducible, and binds surface oxygen more strongly, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurate theoretical modeling, optimizing efficiency and selectivity, and safety concerns, especially in reactions like ethane to ethylene. The presence of Ni vacancies creates a deficit of electrons, contributing to p-conductivity. DFT uncertainties and difficulties in accurately describing NiO are noted. Doping with Zr decreases ethane oxidation and increases the temperature for hydrogen consumption, making the oxide less reactive with hydrogen or oxygen release.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts' preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Niobium doping decreases activation energy and labeled oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species, which are responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with differing oxygen replenishment routes leading to varied surface oxygen species and product distributions. NiO's cation vacancies enable rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation, creating electrophilic oxygen species, while niobium fills these vacancies, reducing active sites and favoring diffusion, leading to nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms and dopant effects on electronic structure and reactivity. Process optimization must balance efficiency, selectivity, and safety at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium via the evaporation method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The Nb/Ni atomic ratio, varying from 0 to 0.67, influences the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, affecting the lattice constant and impacting the electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution, altering the electronic structure. The incorporation of niobium inhibits crystallization, resulting in smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, larger crystals form due to phase segregation. The reducibility of the catalysts broadens upon niobium introduction, indicating structural modifications. Niobium increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites, which significantly boosts catalytic performance. The Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst shows maximum solubility, confirming acidity related to NiONb bonds. XPS analysis reveals surface composition changes, while electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into structural defects. Niobium's n-doping character modifies the electronic structure, and its incorporation reduces the p+ concentration, impacting excess oxygen accommodation. In ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, NiNbO catalysts exhibit high activity and ethene selectivity at low temperatures, with stable catalytic performance. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing the p+ hole concentration. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen due to Nb doping correlates with high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts, with varying Nb contents, are studied for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving optimal 33% ethane conversion and 78% selectivity to ethylene at 15% Nb content. Efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, with oxalate ions reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, inactive NiNb2O6 forms. Deactivation is attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful. Challenges include modeling, optimizing processes, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for nickel oxide-based catalysts, particularly Nb-doped NiO nanocomposites, significantly influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of a thin niobium-rich mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties and thus the activity and selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. Optimal Nb content (34 at.%) results in high activity, selectivity, and stability, indicating that the Nb-rich phase selectively covers active oxygen species of NiO. Further optimization of the preparation method can potentially enhance the catalytic properties of NiO for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, nickel oxide catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. The interaction between niobium ions and structural defects in NiO boosts selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH, as vacancies generate strong oxidizing oxygen species, leading to ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant valence in nickel oxide catalysts modifies the lattice structure, affecting oxygen species and ethane conversion. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants enhance initial selectivity to the desired product. Oxygen species' lability and bonding strength are influenced by dopant valence, impacting ethane activation. The inverse trend between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports this mechanism. Challenges include optimizing dopant concentration for desired electronic structure, understanding oxygen species' reactivity, and ensuring catalyst safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants ease oxide reduction, improving performance. Zr-doped NiO exhibits enhanced selectivity to ethylene, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants and optimizing processes for efficiency, selectivity, and safety. DFT struggles with NiO description, affecting theoretical predictions. Preparation methods, like oxalate-gel coprecipitation vs. template-assisted, can significantly alter conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, like ethane to ethylene, due to reduced activation energy and altered oxygen exchange rates. The Marsvan Krevelen mechanism governs these reactions, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between doped and undoped NiO, affecting product distribution. Niobium fills cation vacancies, reducing electrophilic oxygen species and promoting nucleophilic oxygen, selective for ethylene production. Key challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms, predicting dopant and vacancy effects, optimizing conditions for yield and selectivity, and ensuring safe operation at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The evaporation method is used to prepare mixed NiNbO oxides with varying Nb/Ni ratios, affecting the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation leads to a contraction of the NiO lattice, evidenced by a decrease in lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, and reaches an upper limit for high Nb loading. The cubic rock salt structure of pure NiO is modified by niobium, impacting crystallization and grain size. TPR analysis shows that Nb broadens the reduction profiles, indicating catalyst modifications. The introduction of Nb significantly increases total acidity, generating new acid sites, with a 300% increase observed for a 10% Nb addition. Maximum solubility of Nb in NiO is achieved for the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, correlating with increased acidity. XPS reveals surface composition changes, while electrical conductivity measurements provide insights into structural defects. Nb5+ incorporation suggests n-doping, affecting the electronic structure. Niobium oxide, an n-type semiconductor, influences charge carrier concentration. The reduction of p+ concentration by Nb ions impacts excess oxygen accommodation. In ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, NiNbO catalysts show high activity and ethene selectivity, with Nb enhancing reactivity and selectivity. The Ni0.9Nb0.1 catalyst demonstrates an 80% ethene selectivity increase. NiNbO catalysts are superior for ethane ODH, combining high activity and selectivity at low temperatures. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. The elimination of nonstoichiometric oxygen by Nb doping is likely responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts with varying Nb contents have been studied for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving optimal ethane conversion of 33% with 78% selectivity to ethylene at 15% Nb content at 350 C. The efficiency is attributed to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and influencing catalytic properties. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is linked to decreased active phase particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, an inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Deactivation is gradual, attributed to reduced NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation, with regeneration attempts unsuccessful. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety remain key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for nickel oxide catalysts, doped with niobium, influence their redox properties and performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation. NiO reducibility is inhibited by a thin niobium-rich layer, affecting activity. Selectivity increases at Nb contents >5 at.%, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species. Catalyst deactivation occurs at high Nb loadings, but optimal activity, selectivity, and stability are achieved at 34 at.% Nb. Preparation methods significantly impact structural and catalytic properties, suggesting potential for performance improvement.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In nickel oxide-based catalysts, low-temperature treatment of pure NiO induces non-stoichiometric oxidic phases with cationic deficiency, as observed in microscopy results. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations in the lattice, forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, a precursor for NiNb2O6 crystal compound. The interaction of niobium ions with structural defects in NiO enhances selectivity to ethylene in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, as vacancies lead to strong oxidizing oxygen species, promoting ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant valence in nickel oxide catalysts modifies the lattice constant, influencing the formation of solid solutions and electrophilic oxygen species. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, enhancing ethylene selectivity, while higher valence dopants reduce it. Oxygen species lability is affected by dopant valence, with higher valence leading to stronger oxygen bonding. The linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms the role of oxygen species in ethane conversion. The inverse trend between non-stoichiometric oxygen and ethylene selectivity supports the effect of dopant valence on catalytic performance. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding oxygen species reactivity, optimizing dopant concentration and preparation methods, and ensuring catalyst safety and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide-based catalysts significantly influence their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr increases surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Doping with V increases surface area compared to undoped TiO2. Ni-doped ceria shows improved selectivity and conversion for ethylbenzene to styrene. Zr-doped NiO improves selectivity to ethylene, binds surface oxygen more strongly, and is less reducible, aligning with theoretical predictions. Theoretical modeling faces challenges due to uncertainties in DFT accuracy. The presence of Ni vacancies creates a deficit of electrons, leading to p-conductivity. Doping with Zr decreases ethane oxidation and raises the temperature for hydrogen consumption, making the oxide less reactive with hydrogen or oxygen. Preparation methods, such as oxalate-gel coprecipitation versus template-assisted, can significantly affect conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reactions, attributed to reduced activation energy and exchange rate of labeled oxygen, eliminating nonstoichiometric electrophilic active oxygen species. The reaction proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with distinct oxygen replenishment routes leading to varied surface oxygen species and product distributions. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies results in high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, whereas niobium doping reduces active sites, favoring diffusion and promoting nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety in these systems remain challenging due to complex reaction mechanisms and the need to predict dopant and vacancy effects on electronic structure and reactivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, prepared by incorporating niobium through the evaporation method, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The Nb/Ni atomic ratio, varying from 0 to 0.67, influences the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, evidenced by a decrease in lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176, affecting electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ dissolution, impacting electronic structure. NiO crystallizes in a cubic rock salt structure, modified by niobium, affecting catalytic activity. Niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, larger crystals form due to phase segregation. Reducibility studies using TPR in hydrogen show broadened reduction profiles upon niobium introduction, indicating catalyst modifications. Niobium significantly increases total acidity, generating new acid sites, crucial for catalytic performance. A 10% niobium addition to NiO increases acidity by almost 300%, highlighting niobium's pronounced effect. Maximum niobium solubility in NiO is at the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, confirming acidity's relation to NiONb bond formation. XPS determines surface composition, providing insights into electronic structure and catalytic activity. Electrical conductivity measurements offer information on structural defects and oxidizing species, crucial for understanding catalytic performance. Niobium's incorporation suggests n-doping character, modifying electronic structure. Niobium oxide's n-type semiconductor properties, with free electrons as charge carriers, influence electronic properties. Niobium reduces p+ concentration, affecting excess oxygen accommodation. NiNbO catalysts show high activity and ethene selectivity in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, with stable performance. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing p+ hole concentration. Excess oxygen's inverse correlation with ethylene selectivity highlights the importance of controlling electronic structure. Nonstoichiometric oxygen's elimination by Nb doping is likely responsible for high ethene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts, specifically NiNbO with varying Nb content, exhibit significant effects on electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal ethane conversion to ethylene (33% conversion, 78% selectivity) was achieved at 15% Nb content. The efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, influenced by oxalate ions reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. Below 15% Nb, the amorphous phase prevents sintering of active phase particles, enhancing activity. Above 15% Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase forms. Long-term deactivation is attributed to decreasing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Attempts at regeneration have been unsuccessful. Theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety remain key challenges.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation methods for doped nickel oxide catalysts, particularly with niobium, influence electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Niobium's presence in a thin mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Catalyst activity and selectivity for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation correlate with NiO crystallite size and Nb-rich phase coverage. High Nb loadings cause significant deactivation, whereas 34 at.% Nb optimizes activity, selectivity, and stability. Optimizing preparation methods can enhance catalytic properties, indicating potential for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, the preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation in nickel oxide-based catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric oxidic phase with cationic deficiency, leading to structural defects. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, precursor to NiNb2O6. The interaction of niobium ions with structural defects in NiO enhances the selectivity of NiNbO catalysts to ethylene, as vacancies generate strong oxidizing electrophilic oxygen species, crucial for ethane's total oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and vacancy formation in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, affecting ethane to ethylene conversion. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, enhancing ethylene selectivity, while higher valence dopants reduce it, favoring COx formation. The valence of dopants modifies the lattice constant, influencing the formation of electrophilic oxygen species, which are crucial for ethane activation. A linear relationship exists between oxygen exchange rate and ethane consumption, confirming the active role of oxygen species. Higher dopant valence correlates with higher initial selectivity to ethylene. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding oxygen species reactivity, optimizing dopant concentration for desired electronic structure, and ensuring catalyst safety and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and vacancy formation in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic efficiency in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants (LVDs) facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. Zr-doped NiO exhibits enhanced selectivity to ethylene, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling dopant effects, optimizing processes for efficiency and selectivity, and ensuring safety, especially in ethane to ethylene reactions. Theoretical modeling struggles with predicting NiO behavior accurately, affecting process optimization. Preparation methods also influence catalytic performance, as seen in Ce0.9Ni0.1O2 with varying conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Doped nickel oxide catalysts' preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation significantly impact their electronic structure and catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Niobium doping decreases activation energy and labeled oxygen exchange rate, eliminating electrophilic active oxygen species responsible for ethane's total oxidation to CO2. Ethane ODH proceeds via a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with differing oxygen replenishment routes leading to varied surface oxygen species and product distribution. On NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation on cation vacancies leads to high electrophilic oxygen concentrations, while niobium filling these vacancies reduces active sites for dissociation, favoring diffusion and the presence of nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Key challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms, predicting dopant and vacancy effects on electronic structure and reactivity, optimizing conditions for yield and selectivity, and ensuring safe high-temperature and pressure operation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The preparation method, involving the evaporation technique, allows for varying Nb/Ni atomic ratios, impacting the electronic structure and catalytic activity. Niobium incorporation contracts the NiO lattice, affecting the lattice constant and electronic properties. High Nb loading reaches an upper limit for Nb5+ cation dissolution, influencing the electronic structure. The incorporation of niobium inhibits crystallization, leading to smaller grain sizes, but at high Nb loading, larger crystals form due to phase segregation. Niobium broadens the reduction profiles, indicating catalyst modification. It significantly increases the total acidity, generating new acid sites, which is crucial for catalytic performance. A 10% Nb addition to NiO boosts acidity by almost 300%. Maximum niobium solubility in NiO is at the Ni0.85Nb0.15 catalyst, correlating with increased acidity due to NiONb bond formation. Surface composition analysis by XPS reveals insights into electronic structure and catalytic activity. Electrical conductivity measurements provide information on structural defects and oxidizing species. Niobium acts as an n-dopant in the p-type NiO lattice, reducing the p+ concentration. Niobium oxide, an n-type semiconductor, influences electronic properties. Niobium reduces excess surface oxygen, impacting catalytic performance. In ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, even small Nb amounts significantly increase reactivity. A good ODH catalyst requires high ethylene conversion at low temperatures with high selectivity, which niobium enhances. Niobium increases ethene selectivity from 20% in NiO to 80% in Ni0.9Nb0.1. NiNbO catalysts for ethane ODH show high activity and selectivity at low temperatures, with stable performance. Niobium reduces p+ hole concentration, affecting electronic structure. Excess oxygen on Ni-based catalysts inversely correlates with ethylene selectivity. Nonstoichiometric oxygen elimination by Nb doping likely causes high ethene selectivity in NiNbO mixed oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"},
{"DOC": "NiNbO catalysts with varying Nb contents have been optimized for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, achieving 33% conversion and 78% selectivity to ethylene at 15% Nb. Efficiency is linked to surface interaction between NiO and amorphous Nb2O5, with oxalate ions reducing NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry. Optimal activity at 15% Nb is due to reduced particle size, preventing sintering. Above 15% Nb, inactive NiNb2O6 forms. Deactivation is attributed to reduced oxygen over-stoichiometry and NiNb2O6 phase formation. Catalyst regeneration attempts have been unsuccessful. Challenges include theoretical modeling, process optimization, and balancing efficiency, selectivity, and safety.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2010.10.004"},
{"DOC": "Citric acid-based preparation of nickel-rich NbNi gel influences the electronic structure and catalytic performance of nickel oxide-based catalysts in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The presence of a thin niobium-rich mixed oxide layer inhibits NiO reducibility, affecting redox properties. Optimal Nb content (34 at.%) ensures high activity, selectivity, and stability for ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, as the Nb-rich phase covers unselective active oxygen species of NiO. High Nb loadings lead to catalyst deactivation, highlighting the importance of preparation methods in optimizing structural and catalytic properties for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2011.10.005"},
{"DOC": "In oxidative dehydrogenation reactions, nickel oxide catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, dopant concentrations, and vacancy formation. Low-temperature treatment of pure NiO creates a non-stoichiometric phase with cationic deficiency, as per microscopy results. Upon Nb doping, two phases emerge: a NiO phase with Nb cations forming a NiNb solid solution, and a distorted Nb-rich phase, a precursor for NiNb2O6 compound. The interaction of niobium ions with structural defects in NiO enhances selectivity to ethylene in ethane ODH, as vacancies lead to strong oxidizing oxygen species, causing total ethane oxidation to CO2.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2007.02.030"},
{"DOC": "Dopant valence in nickel oxide catalysts modifies the lattice constant, influencing electrophilic oxygen species formation, crucial for ethane oxidation. Lower valence dopants increase non-stoichiometric oxygen, favoring ethylene production, while higher valence dopants enhance oxygen bonding, affecting oxygen species lability. A linear relationship between oxygen exchange and ethane consumption confirms oxygen species' role in ethane conversion. Non-stoichiometric oxygen correlates inversely with foreign cation valence, supporting selective ethane conversion to ethylene. Higher dopant valence boosts initial selectivity to the desired product. Theoretical modeling, optimizing dopant concentration, and ensuring catalyst safety under reaction conditions are key challenges in these catalytic systems.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2009.12.004"},
{"DOC": "Dopant concentrations and preparation methods in nickel oxide catalysts significantly impact their performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. Systematic studies are scarce, with few cases of a single oxide being doped with various elements and tested under diverse conditions. Doping with Fe or Zr boosts the surface area, enhancing catalytic activity. Low-valence dopants facilitate oxide reduction, improving performance. V-doped catalysts have a larger surface area than undoped TiO2. Zr-doped NiO exhibits enhanced selectivity to ethylene, reduced reducibility, and stronger surface oxygen binding, aligning with theoretical predictions. Challenges include accurately modeling the effects of dopants, optimizing processes for efficiency and selectivity, and ensuring safety, particularly in reactions like ethane to ethylene.", "Doi": "10.1021/cr300418s_9"},
{"DOC": "Niobium-doped nickel oxide catalysts exhibit enhanced performance in ethane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) to ethylene, due to altered electronic structure and oxygen species. The ODH reaction follows a Marsvan Krevelen mechanism, with surface oxygen replenishment differing between undoped and doped catalysts, affecting product distribution. On undoped NiO, rapid gaseous oxygen dissociation leads to electrophilic oxygen species, favoring ethane total oxidation. Niobium fills cationic vacancies, reducing active sites for dissociation and promoting diffusion, resulting in nucleophilic oxygen species selective for ethylene production. Theoretical modeling challenges include understanding complex reaction mechanisms and dopant effects on reactivity. Process optimization aims for maximum yield and selectivity, while ensuring safe operation at high temperatures and pressures.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.003"},
{"DOC": "Nickel oxide-based catalysts, doped with niobium, exhibit enhanced catalytic performance in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions. The evaporation method is used to prepare mixed NiNbO oxides with varying Nb/Ni ratios, affecting the lattice structure and electronic properties. Incorporating niobium causes a contraction of the NiO lattice, evidenced by a decrease in the lattice constant up to a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.176. This modification leads to a significant increase in total acidity, generating new acid sites of weak and moderate strength. For instance, a 10% Nb addition to NiO results in a nearly 300% increase in acidity. The maximum solubility of niobium in NiO is achieved at a Nb/Ni ratio of 0.15, correlating with the observed acidity. Niobium acts as an electron donor, reducing the p+ hole concentration in the NiO lattice. In ethane oxidative dehydrogenation, even small amounts of niobium (Nb/Ni = 0.111) in NiO double the per weight reactivity compared to pure nickel oxide. Selectivity to ethene increases dramatically, from 20% for NiO to 80% for the Ni0.9Nb0.1 catalyst. These findings highlight the critical role of dopant concentration in tuning the electronic structure and catalytic performance, with implications for process optimization and theoretical modeling in oxidative dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2005.11.002"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    