Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology influence the performance of various zeolite-based catalysts (particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Zeolite-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH): Preparation methods, characterization, and performance comparison of various zeolite types, with a focus on BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "For PDH, PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed no impact on SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Performance surpassed PtSn/ZSM-5, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Eliminating lattice Al atoms reduces strong acid sites, suppressing side reactions and enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites accommodate metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This catalyst achieves initial propane conversion of 53% and propylene selectivity of 93%, with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations confirm propane dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, offers optimal PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours, indicating potential for advanced PDH catalysts. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible, according to theoretical models.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites significantly enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. On ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while on Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ALD, play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with ZnO-modified Y zeolite eliminating Brønsted acid sites and increasing strong Lewis acid sites. Improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability are attributed to the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, enhances TOF by 1100% and propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are internal. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects within zeolite cages are critical for improved propylene selectivity and conversion. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to decreased selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn catalysts on Beta and mordenite zeolites with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed the highest stable propane conversion rates, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propene production (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h with >90% selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. Zn species with varying charges coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites, influencing platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Ion-exchanged zinc in Na-ZSM-5 inhibits zinc loss. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst maintained stable performance for 63 h with negligible zinc loss. Zinc incorporation methods had minimal impact on large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts' performance in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination of Beta zeolites to Si-Beta creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve near 100% propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% initial activity, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 exhibits superior stability due to coke distribution. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn improves dispersion and catalytic performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer and decreasing coke formation, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with specific molar ratios, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts stability and activity. XRD shows unaltered support structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn. Higher ammonia uptake is noted at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, modifies Pt ensembles, and decreases coke formation, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into tetrahedral coordination states of Si-beta. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration due to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement, preventing coke formation and Pt sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities based on V loading. Higher V loading increases the amount of acidic sites, boosting catalytic activity, and also enhances propylene selectivity and deactivation rate due to the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V does not impact catalytic performance. The linear relationship between catalytic activity and acidic sites, derived from VOx-SiBeta interaction, underscores the role of V loading in influencing PDH reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta with remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in SiBeta zeolite's T-sites forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing catalytic efficiency. CoSiBeta catalysts, especially with 0.5 wt% Co, achieve high propylene productivity, propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. CoOx at T-sites can be reduced to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. Propylene selectivity is high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, increasing continuously for 3CoSiBeta, and initially null for 10CoSiBeta, indicating side reactions. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, suggesting a common active phase. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for 0.5CoSiBeta is the highest reported, with 97% propylene selectivity, highlighting its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to superior Pt distribution on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weaker acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, leading to reduced Sn oxide stability and catalytic activity. Key performance factors include Pt and Sn distribution, zeolite acidity, and resistance to carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Performance surpassed that of PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) with high initial conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Eliminating lattice Al atoms reduces strong acid sites, suppressing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites anchor metal species, potentially forming mononuclear active sites. This catalyst exhibits high stability and reusability, making it a promising option for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in PDH, activating propane's C-H bond at high temperatures with high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations indicate dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours, suggesting a direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible, with open sites being more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, more effective for propane conversion, form after the first ALD cycle on both zeolites. The pore size and topology affect ZnO distribution and reactant accessibility. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with Y zeolite showing an increase in strong Lewis acid sites and ZSM-5 retaining some Brønsted acid sites. The key to improved performance lies in the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalytic performance. Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite enhance TOF and propylene selectivity compared to those inside, reducing coke deposition and improving stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, hindering propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolites, particularly Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc, exhibit the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr ~29%, T = 555°C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc has a negligible effect on the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits superior stereochemistry control in dehydrogenation reactions. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn enhances Pt dispersion by modifying surface ensembles and facilitates carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn reduces coke formation, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD, XRF, BET, TPD, TPR, and TPO analyses provide insights into the catalyst's structure, composition, surface area, and behavior. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn improves dispersion, boosting performance. Sn loading up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rates. Sn content affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading. BET indicates surface area reduction with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn. Higher ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Decreased peak intensities after increased Sn loading reduce catalyst activity for cracking and improve propylene selectivity. At high Sn (1.2 wt %), higher acidity blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn. Increased Sn loading forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta zeolites, followed by metal impregnation, leading to the incorporation of Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This facilitates the high dispersion of Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The resulting Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts demonstrate exceptional PDH performance, achieving high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and the confinement effect of Sn in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities correlating linearly with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Higher V loadings increase propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency (Quote 1). Highly dispersed CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites (Quote 2). CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards (Quote 4). The earth's abundance of Co and its catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. Co(II) activates CH bonds in propane, and single-site Co2+ on silica supports propylene selectivity (Quote 36, 37). Tetrahedral Co2+ in CoAl2O4 also acts as active sites (Quote 38). Higher Co loadings confirm that small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition (Quote 9, 29). The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment (Quote 10). The Co species are mainly CoOx at the T-sites of 0.5CoSiBeta (Quote 11). The catalytic performance of 0.5CoSiBeta catalysts with and without prereduction is similar, indicating that confined CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction (Quote 12). The initial propane conversion increases with Co loading, and propylene selectivity stabilizes at high levels for 0.5/1CoSiBeta catalysts (Quotes 13-15). The 10CoSiBeta catalyst initially shows null propylene selectivity, indicating side reactions, but rapidly increases to high selectivity, suggesting PDH becomes predominant (Quotes 17-18). The 10CoSiBeta, Re10CoSiBeta, and Reox10CoSiBeta catalysts exhibit similar catalytic activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, indicating that cobalt species transform into the same active phases (Quote 22). The small metallic Co particles generated by the reduction of confined CoOx are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity, as well as ideal reusability (Quote 35).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, unlike the weak acid sites of ZSM-5, which lead to more Pt clusters and reduced Sn oxide interactions, decreasing catalytic activity. Key factors for improved propylene selectivity and stability include Pt distribution and zeolite acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was developed for direct propane dehydrogenation to propylene, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and over 97% total olefins selectivity. Prepared by sequential impregnation, the catalyst's performance was compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. SAPO-34's acidity and topology remained unaffected by metal doping, as confirmed by NH3-TPD and XRD. The enhanced performance is attributed to the catalyst's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) with high initial conversion and propylene selectivity. Eliminating lattice Al atoms reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites at low loading amounts. This preparation method yields a catalyst with up to 53% propane conversion and 93% propylene selectivity, demonstrating high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolites, featuring single-site Sn in the BEA framework, exhibit high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible and reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by the parent and ALD ZnO modified zeolites, play a crucial role in reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is affected by factors such as coke formation and sintering. The key to improved performance lies in the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on zeolites significantly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, exhibits a 1100% higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Exterior Pt clusters have higher propylene selectivity and less coke deposition, attributed to the framework's passivation effect, which weakens propane activation and prevents propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content exhibit the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr ~29%) at 555°C and 0.1 MPa for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The presence of zinc shifts the platinum reduction peak to higher temperatures, indicating its influence. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C on 0.5Pt4.4Zn/Na-ZSM-5 indicates a less noble species associated with zinc. Zinc loss is inhibited in zeolite Na-ZSM-5 by ion exchange. The PtZn-containing zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance with negligible zinc loss for 63 hours. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. Zinc incorporation methods do not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts' performance in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to create Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests improves metal dispersion and stabilization, boosting PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% initial activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Sn loading up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher levels are detrimental. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing metal-support interaction, and facilitates carbon deposit transfer. Optimal conditions for propane dehydrogenation are 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect of Sn on acidity. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid sites, improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher, but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds, allowing intermediates to move easily to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, incorporating Sn species into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes high dispersion of Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration over multiple cycles at 550 C, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities correlating with the amount of generated acidic sites. The aggregation degree of VOx species determines propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, both increasing with higher V loading. This highlights the role of preparation methods and composition in influencing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency to propylene (Quote 1). CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity with high propane conversion and selectivity (Quote 4). Metallic Co particles, formed in situ during reactions, are active sites (Quote 10). Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, with maximal conversions around 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta catalysts, respectively. Propylene selectivities are high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta catalysts (Quote 15). Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active sites, showing great catalytic activity, high product selectivity, and ideal reusability (Quote 35).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite topology, preparation methods, and composition significantly affect catalyst performance. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, leading to reduced Sn oxide stability and catalytic activity. Key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, the enhanced performance of PtSn/SAPO-34 is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) with high initial propane conversion (~53%), superior propylene selectivity (~93%), and excellent stability. Eliminating lattice Al atoms depresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, potentially forming mononuclear active sites with low metal loading. Adjusting the acidity of BEA-type β zeolites by dealumination contributes to the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). It activates propane's C-H bond at high temperatures, showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions, suggesting potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. The dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites are key factors contributing to improved performance. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO clusters, impacting catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt/NaX catalysts, with Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite, exhibit superior performance compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. The exterior Pt/NaX catalyst shows a substantial increase in TOF and propylene selectivity, with less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the surrounding zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors. Pt clusters with a lower d-band center, influenced by the zeolite framework, are less effective for propane activation. The framework also suppresses propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content showed the highest and most stable propane conversion rates, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h time-on-stream. Propene selectivity over zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta exceeded 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affected activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The presence of zinc shifts the platinum reduction peak to higher temperatures, indicating its influence. Hydrogen consumption at 530 C on 0.5Pt4.4Zn/Na-ZSM-5 indicates a less noble species associated with zinc. Zinc loss is inhibited in zeolite Na-ZSM-5 by ion exchange. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance for 63 h with negligible zinc loss. Hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. Zinc incorporation methods do not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination of Beta zeolites to Si-Beta creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, enhancing propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulation of PtSn in Si-Beta channels results in high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain activity better than conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes catalyst activity, and PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and carbon deposit transfer. Sn up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads are detrimental. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn changes interfacial character and facilitates carbon deposit transfer. Optimal conditions for propane dehydrogenation are 585 C, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % boosts performance, but beyond that, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. Peaks for Pt and Sn are not observed due to low concentration, but they are initially monodispersed. Peak height decreases with Sn loading, possibly due to surface character changes. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect of Sn on acidity. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid site intensity, improving stereochemistry control. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher, but they block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds and allowing intermediates to move easily to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts enhances PDH performance. Dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation incorporates Sn into tetrahedral coordination states, promoting ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion. This results in high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities based on V loading. The catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but can lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The confined CoOx species can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction, acting as active sites. The CoSiBeta catalysts maintain similar catalytic performance regardless of initial cobalt states, indicating that external cobalt species are covered with coke deposition, leaving the same active sites. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates ideal reusability and high TOF values, with propylene selectivity above 97%. The small metallic Co particles, generated by the reduction of confined CoOx, are the active sites for PDH, showing great catalytic activity and high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to greater Pt availability on the external surface, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, while weaker ZSM-5 acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, leading to reduced Sn oxide stability and catalytic activity. Key factors for improved PDH performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Performance surpassed PtSn/ZSM-5, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, supporting small ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic stability. Vacant T-atom sites in the zeolite framework anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when metal loading is low. This novel catalyst achieves high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity, with excellent stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and shows high selectivity, activity, and stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions. Theoretical calculations indicate that dehydrogenation prefers the direct pathway and that open sites are more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents. These findings suggest Sn-Beta zeolites' potential for developing advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts PDH activity and propylene selectivity by creating isolated Zn(OH)+ species, which are more effective for propane conversion. The dispersion and form of ZnO, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites are key factors for improved performance. ALD allows precise control over ZnO clusters, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and active species distribution. The balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions, influenced by Brønsted acid sites, is crucial for selectivity and conversion rates.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on zeolites significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, with interior Pt clusters, by 1100% in TOF and shows enhanced propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability after 18 hours. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect determine propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc, achieving stable propane conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 hours and >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was noted. Zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios showed consistent behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts' performance in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, enhancing metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are active for PDH. Pt distribution affects coke deposition and stability. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX catalysts have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing the catalyst's activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation leads to catalyst deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Sn loading up to 1 wt % enhances catalytic performance, but higher loads diminish the reaction rate. The Sn content impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original structure of the SAPO-34 support remains unchanged, and the metals are believed to be monodispersed initially. Increasing Sn loading decreases surface area due to pore blocking, affecting catalyst geometry. The presence of Sn reduces the intensity of Bronsted acid sites, making the catalyst less active for propane cracking and improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentrations, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt active sites, reducing conversion. The presence of Sn facilitates the transfer of carbon deposits to the support, improving catalyst stability by suppressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' high dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts show excellent PDH performance, achieving high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varied activities with different V loadings. Catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx-SiBeta interactions. VOx aggregation degree determines propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta with remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the confinement of CoOx species in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite leads to ultrasmall Co particles, highly efficient for PDH to propylene (Quote 1). CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards (Quote 4). Co loading impacts catalytic activity, with initial propane conversion increasing with higher Co loadings. Propylene selectivity is high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta catalysts, stabilizing at about 98% (Quote 15). The active sites are small metallic Co particles, which show great catalytic activity and high product selectivity (Quote 35).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the PtSnNa/SUZ-4 catalyst outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 reduces Sn oxide interactions, leading to easier reduction and decreased catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak sites allow deeper Pt dispersion, affecting activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Its performance was compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. The catalyst's enhanced performance is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting its acidic strength or structural topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving superior propylene selectivity and stability. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. The acidity of BEA-type β zeolites can be adjusted, further optimizing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, exhibits high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations indicate propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours, suggesting potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances PDH catalytic activity, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, crucial for propane conversion, are more effective than larger ZnO clusters. The balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions, influenced by the type and strength of acid sites, affects selectivity. Catalyst stability is impacted by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, affecting catalytic activity and stability. The pore size and topology of zeolites influence precursor accessibility and active species distribution. For ZSM-5, precursors infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles. The key to improved performance lies in the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the zeolite pore structure.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, featuring interior clusters, by enhancing TOF and propylene selectivity. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Exterior Pt clusters exhibit a higher d-band center, facilitating propane activation and propylene desorption, while reducing coke deposition. This results in improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn-containing Beta and mordenite zeolites with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content achieved the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, close to thermodynamic equilibrium, with >90% propene selectivity for 63 h. Zinc incorporation through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites coexists and accounts for total zinc content. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates its interaction with zinc, and hydrogen consumption suggests the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low, and the catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance with negligible zinc loss for 63 h. The incorporation method of zinc does not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to create Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests improves metal dispersion and stabilization, boosting PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability over PtSnNa/ZSM-5. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. SAPO-34 support preparation involves specific molar ratios of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and reducing carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement to support. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. At higher Sn concentrations, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. The presence of Sn facilitates the transfer of carbon deposits to the support, improving stereochemistry control and propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts show high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration due to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement, inhibiting coke and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate are determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species, increasing with higher V loading. Notably, the initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, maintaining 90% propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite's T-sites forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The 0.5 wt% CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates state-of-the-art propylene productivity, with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and reported PDH activity make it a viable long-term option. CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, indicating that cobalt species transform into the same active phases. The Co2p XPS spectra confirm the presence of metallic Co after reduction-oxidation treatment. The small metallic Co particles, generated by the reduction of confined CoOx, are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity, product selectivity, and reusability. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst's TOF value for PDH at 550 C is 32.9 h-1, with propylene selectivity above 97%, confirming its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing carbon deposition deactivation. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, favoring external Pt dispersion, whereas ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt penetration, reducing catalytic activity. Sn oxide dispersion and reduction to the metallic state, which decreases hydrocarbon dehydrogenation activity, are influenced by zeolite acidity. Key factors for improved PDH performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization via XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Performance was compared with PtSn/ZSM-5, with improved results attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite-supported ZnO nanoclusters serve as a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. The optimal 10wt% Zn-loaded catalyst exhibits around 53% propane conversion and 93% propylene selectivity at a space velocity of 4000cm3gcat1h1, with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, exhibits high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations indicate propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours, offering potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. The type and strength of acid sites on parent and ALD ZnO-modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. For improved performance, the dispersion and form of ZnO species, type and strength of acid sites, and pore structure of the zeolites are key factors.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, exhibits 11x higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. Pt/NaX also shows less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, hindering propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn catalysts on Beta and mordenite zeolites with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed the highest stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. Ion exchange inhibits zinc loss and retains the parent zeolite's specific surface area. Zinc affects platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios (≤3.4) show similar catalytic behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly affect zeolite-based catalysts' performance in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% initial activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites, increasing strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity, and the novel PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst offers improved stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) diminishes performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made via sequential impregnation. XRD, XRF, and BET analyses confirm structure, metallic content, and surface area, respectively. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyses provide insights into surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it reduces the reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered support structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area reduction with Sn loading. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation, and Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stereochemistry control and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes high dispersion of Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration due to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement, maintaining catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities based on V loading. The catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in SiBeta zeolite's T-sites forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ, acts as active sites. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but lead to cracking and carbon deposition. Propylene selectivity is high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, increasing continuously for 3CoSiBeta, and initially null for 10CoSiBeta, indicating side reactions. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts show similar activity and selectivity, suggesting transformation into the same active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains activity over four cycles, indicating deactivation by carbon deposits, not sintering. Its TOF value and propylene selectivity are superior, confirming its high intrinsic activity for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, unlike ZSM-5's weak sites, which allow deeper Pt dispersion. Sn oxide reduction is easier on ZSM-5, decreasing activity. Key factors for improved PDH performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    