Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology influence the performance of various zeolite-based catalysts (particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Zeolite-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH): Preparation methods, characterization, and performance comparison of various zeolite types, with a focus on BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, the enhanced performance of PtSn/SAPO-34 is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving initial propane conversion of 53% and propylene selectivity of 93%. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This preparation method ensures high stability and reusability, making it a promising approach for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). It activates propane's C-H bond at high temperatures, showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. Propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites are stable under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect, with open sites being more reactive based on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and the accessibility of reactants to active sites. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species on both zeolites after the first cycle being key for improved propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Catalyst stability is influenced by factors such as coke formation, sintering, and evaporation of ZnO species.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt/NaX catalysts, with Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite, outperform Pt@NaX catalysts, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite, showing enhanced propylene selectivity and conversion rates. The key factors are the electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework's effect on the d-band center, and diffusion within zeolite cages. The zeolitic framework surrounding the enclosed Pt clusters decreases the d-band center, weakening propane activation and preventing propylene desorption, leading to reduced propylene selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl-ratios > 8.7 and zinc contents close to 2.5 wt.% exhibit the highest and most stable conversion levels. Over 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta, a stable conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene was observed for 63 h, with propene selectivity > 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. Ion-exchanged zinc inhibits its loss during experiments. The presence of various zinc species in zeolites influences catalytic behavior. The specific surface area of the parent zeolite is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates the effect of zinc. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C suggests the presence of a less noble zinc-associated species. The different zinc incorporation methods do not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites in side pores. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% initial activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability compared to PtSnNa/ZSM-5. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF than impregnated Pt/NaX.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity and performance. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits superior stereochemistry control in propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing its formation, enhancing catalyst stability. The preparation of SAPO-34 involves a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms the structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and allowing intermediates to move to the support. Optimal operating conditions are 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content significantly affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 topology. Peaks for Pt and Sn are not observed due to low concentration, but they are monodispersed. Peak height decreases with Sn loading, possibly due to surface character changes. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading, from 419 to 396 m2/g, due to pore blocking. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect on acidity with Sn (0.8-1.2 wt %). Small shifts in peaks indicate decreased acid intensity. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Decreased peak intensities after increasing Sn loading reduce Bronsted acid sites, making the catalyst less active for cracking and improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn (1.2 wt %), both L and B acidity are higher, but they block Pt sites, resulting in low conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Reduction peaks at higher temperatures indicate good Pt-support interaction. Increased Sn loading shifts peaks toward lower temperatures, indicating Sn0 species formation. Direct anchored Pt sites are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles by decreasing surface area and reducing carbon-metal bonds, allowing intermediates to move easily to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "In PDH, the preparation method and composition of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly Pt/Sn-Si-beta, significantly impact performance. An improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, facilitates Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters. This results in high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities dependent on V loading. A linear correlation exists between the amount of generated acidic sites and catalytic activity, with these sites stemming from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate are determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species, increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta, which exhibits high stability in PDH by restricting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in T-sites of SiBeta zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles, enhancing efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co achieves state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, and prereduction shortens the induction period. CoOx at T-sites remains stable, and catalysts with and without prereduction have similar performance, indicating in situ reduction. Propylene selectivity increases with Co loading, but excessive Co initially causes side reactions. After 0.5 h, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, suggesting transformation into the same active phases. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles cause coking and side reactions. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value and propylene selectivity are superior, confirming its high intrinsic activity for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to superior Pt distribution on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, unlike ZSM-5, where weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing Sn oxides to metallic state and decreasing catalytic activity. Key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Characterization by XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis confirmed the catalyst's integrity. The enhanced performance, compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting its acidic strength or structural topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters supported on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a novel, high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This preparation method yields a catalyst with initial propane conversion around 53% and propylene selectivity of about 93%, alongside high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, with Na-Sn-Beta-30 showing optimal performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta's stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours and its activation of propane's C-H bond at high temperatures make it a promising PDH catalyst. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible, according to theoretical models.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts PDH activity and propylene selectivity, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species proving more effective than larger clusters. Pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution, impacting catalytic activity. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, enhancing stability and performance. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ZnO incorporation, guide reaction pathways. Key factors for improved performance include ZnO dispersion, acid site type, and zeolite pore structure.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. A study comparing Pt/NaX and Pt@NaX catalysts revealed that the location of Pt clusters, either on the exterior or inside of X-zeolite, markedly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, showed a substantial increase in TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX. Additionally, Pt/NaX exhibited less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the surrounding zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects within zeolite cages are key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption, impacting selectivity and coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "The performance of zeolite-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology. PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content showed the highest and most stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr ~29%, T=555°C, p=0.1 MPa) for 63 h time-on-stream with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with the presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange, and the shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates its interaction with zinc. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C on 0.5Pt4.4Zn/Na-ZSM-5 suggests the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. The introduction of zinc by ion exchange inhibits zinc loss. The PtZn-containing zeolite Na-Beta maintained stable performance for 63 h with negligible zinc loss, exhibiting high propane conversions and >90% propene selectivity. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are relatively low. The different zinc incorporation methods did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology significantly impact PDH catalyst performance. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are active for PDH. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability over PtSnNa/ZSM-5. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF than impregnated Pt/NaX. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn improves dispersion and catalytic performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer and decreasing coke formation, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metals, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer to the support, modifying Pt ensembles and improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the post-synthesis strategy of dealumination and metal impregnation creates Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts with enhanced performance. Sn species integrate into the Si-beta framework, facilitating the dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This interaction boosts propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities based on V loading. The catalytic activity correlates with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, with the aggregation degree of VOx species being a key factor.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoSiBeta catalysts with CoOx species confined in T-sites (silanols) of dealuminated Beta zeolite are highly efficient, converting propane to propylene. The 0.5 wt% Co in SiBeta zeolite achieves state-of-the-art propylene productivity with 72% propane conversion and over 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co loading affects conversion rates, with 53%, 59%, 80%, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta, respectively. Propylene selectivity is high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, reaching about 98%. Initial propylene selectivity for 10CoSiBeta is null, indicating initial side reactions, but rapidly increases to 92% as PDH becomes predominant. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, suggesting a common active phase. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for 0.5CoSiBeta is 32.9 h-1 at 550 C, with propylene selectivity above 97%, highlighting its superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, whereas the weaker acidity of ZSM-5 allows more precursor entry, leading to dispersed Pt clusters. The reduced Sn oxides on ZSM-5 are more easily transformed to the metallic state, decreasing catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and stability are enhanced by Pt distribution on the external surface and the acidity of the zeolite support.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared via sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and over 97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization by XRF, BET, XRD, and other methods confirmed the catalyst's integrity and acidity. The enhanced performance over PtSn/ZSM-5 is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as an effective catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Dealumination, by removing lattice Al atoms, suppresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, forming active sites. This preparation method yields a catalyst with high stability and reusability, as demonstrated by a 53% propane conversion and 93% propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, delivers optimal PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Theoretical calculations confirm the direct pathway's feasibility for dehydrogenation and the reactivity of open sites over closed ones, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective than larger ZnO clusters, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species formed after the first cycle being more effective for propane conversion. The dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites are key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, which has internal Pt clusters, by enhancing TOF by over 1000% and improving propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Exterior Pt clusters have a higher d-band center, facilitating propane activation and propylene desorption, thus enhancing selectivity and reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn catalysts on zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content achieved stable conversion rates close to thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) over 63 h, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. Zn species with varying charges coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites, impacting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Zinc introduction by ion exchange in Na-ZSM-5 inhibits zinc loss. The PtZn zeolite Na-Beta showed high propane conversion and propene selectivity for 63 h, with low hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance for 63 h with minimal zinc loss. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios (≤3.4) showed similar catalytic behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly affect zeolite-based catalysts' performance in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulation of Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions leads to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms contribute to high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain activity better than conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. GaHx species upon H2 reduction boost PDH rates. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 exhibits superior stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and reducing carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement to the support. The presence of Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn content significantly affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area decrease with Sn loading due to pore blocking. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect of Sn on acidity, with small shifts toward lower temperatures. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid site intensity, decreasing propane cracking and improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn (1.2 wt %), both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in excellent catalytic performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta. This catalyst exhibits high stability in PDH, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity, due to zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, demonstrate state-of-the-art propylene productivity with high propane conversion and selectivity. The confinement of CoOx species in dealuminated Beta zeolite's T-sites facilitates the formation of ultrasmall Co particles, which are highly efficient for PDH. These CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high catalytic activity and selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The Co species are mainly in the form of CoOx at the T-sites. All catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, indicating the transformation of cobalt species into the same active phases. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, showing great catalytic activity with high product selectivity and ideal reusability. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst has the highest TOF value and propylene selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and comparable to industrial standards. The catalyst's deactivation is mainly due to carbon deposits, not cobalt sintering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing catalytic activity. Sn oxide reduction to the metallic state is easier on ZSM-5, further decreasing activity. Key factors for improved PDH performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Performance surpassed that of PtSn/ZSM-5, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with reduced lattice Al atoms, suppresses strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and propylene selectivity in PDH. ZnO nanoclusters supported on this zeolite form a novel catalyst with high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Vacant T-atom sites, post-dealumination, anchor metal species, enabling mononuclear active sites when metal loading is low. This catalyst achieves a propane conversion of around 53% and a propylene selectivity of about 93% at a space velocity of 4000cm3gcat1h1, with reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, offers optimal PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathways are kinetically more feasible than indirect ones, with open sites being more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO on ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances PDH catalytic activity and propylene selectivity. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The type and strength of acid sites and the pore structure of zeolites, influenced by ALD, significantly impact the reaction pathways. ALD allows precise control over ZnO clusters, improving catalyst stability and performance. The dispersion and form of ZnO species, along with the zeolite's pore size and topology, affect reactant accessibility and active site distribution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. A study comparing Pt clusters on the exterior (Pt/NaX) versus interior (Pt@NaX) of X-zeolite revealed that exterior Pt clusters enhanced TOF by 1100% and improved propylene selectivity compared to interior clusters. Pt/NaX also showed less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the surrounding zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors for improved selectivity, conversion, and stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of confined Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption, impacting selectivity and coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal conversion and selectivity were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst exhibited stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 h, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites impacts catalytic behavior. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates the influence of zinc. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C suggests the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst maintains stable performance for 63 h with minimal zinc loss. The incorporation of zinc does not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, enhancing metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit superior propylene formation. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts achieve near 100% propylene selectivity. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains activity better than conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity, and the novel PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst exhibits improved stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving catalyst stability. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms the structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyses provide insights into surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing metal-support interaction, and reduces carbon-metal bonds, allowing intermediates to move to the support. The presence of Sn up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but beyond this, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn content significantly affects catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 topology. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area decrease with Sn loading. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect of Sn on acidity. The highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Direct anchored Pt sites are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, integrating Sn into tetrahedral coordination states of the Si-beta framework. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions, enhancing propene formation rates and selectivity. The catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates (2.3-3.1 mol g1Pt h1) and >99% selectivity at 550-600°C. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities proportional to the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rates increase with higher V loadings, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V does not impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the confinement of CoOx species in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite facilitates the formation of ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. CoOx species, easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, act as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but may lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. Co species are mainly CoOx at T-sites, and catalysts with and without prereduction treatments exhibit similar performance, indicating that CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction. The initial propane conversion and propylene selectivity increase with Co loading, stabilizing at high values for 0.5/1CoSiBeta catalysts. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts show similar activity and selectivity, suggesting a transformation into the same active phases. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity, selectivity, and reusability. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates the highest TOF value and propylene selectivity, confirming its superiority in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to greater Pt availability on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, while weaker ZSM-5 acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing activity. Sn oxide dispersion and reduction to metallic state, influenced by zeolite acidity, also impact hydrocarbon dehydrogenation activity. Key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "PtSn/SAPO-34, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, outperforming PtSn/ZSM-5. Its enhanced performance is attributed to larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming an efficient catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. This catalyst exhibits high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, potentially forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. These features contribute to the catalyst's high performance and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in PDH, showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO on ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts PDH activity and propylene selectivity. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The type and strength of acid sites and the pore structure significantly impact the reaction pathways. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, enhancing catalytic activity and stability. The balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions, influenced by Brønsted acid sites, is crucial for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, exhibits 11x higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are internal. Pt/NaX also shows less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, hindering propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl-ratios > 8.7 and zinc contents close to 2.5 wt.% exhibit the highest and most stable conversion levels. Over zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta, a stable conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene was observed for 63 h time-on-stream, with propene selectivity > 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects the catalyst's activity and selectivity. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites influences the total zinc content. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates the effect of zinc on platinum species. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530 C suggests the presence of a less noble species associated with zinc. The introduction of zinc by ion exchange inhibits zinc loss. The PtZn-containing zeolite Na-Beta maintains stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are relatively low. The different zinc incorporation methods do not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly affect zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, enhancing metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms contribute to high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% initial activity, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer. Increased Sn content beyond 1 wt % negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio. Bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content. BET measures surface area, TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rate. Sn content affects stability and activity. XRD shows unaltered support structure. Peaks decrease with Sn loading, indicating surface character changes. XRF confirms metal loading. Surface area decreases with Sn loading, affecting geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid sites, improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Direct Pt sites are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "In PDH, the preparation method, composition, and topology of zeolite-based catalysts, notably Pt/Sn-Si-beta, significantly impact performance. An improved post-synthesis strategy, involving H-beta dealumination and metal impregnation, facilitates the incorporation of Sn into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate excellent PDH performance with high propene selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) with varied V loadings impact catalytic activity, which correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx-SiBeta interaction. VOx aggregation degree determines propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, increasing with higher V loading. The initial V valence state has no significant effect on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites (silanols) of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co exhibits state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and reported PDH activity make it a viable long-term catalyst. Co(II) activates CH bonds in propane, and single-site Co2+ on silica supports propylene selectively, with tetrahedral Co2+ in CoAl2O4 acting as active sites. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The CoOx species at T-sites of 0.5CoSiBeta are reducible to metallic Co during the reaction. The initial propane conversion increases with Co loading, and propylene selectivity stabilizes at high levels for 0.5/1CoSiBeta catalysts. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability and high TOF values for PDH at 550 C, with superior propylene selectivity. The small metallic Co particles, generated by reducing confined CoOx, are active sites with high product selectivity and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly PtSnNa/SUZ-4 and PtSnNa/ZSM-5, is influenced by the distribution of Pt on the external surfaces, zeolite acidity, and interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on its external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction between Sn oxides and the support, making Sn oxides easier to reduce to the metallic state, thus decreasing catalytic activity. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while the weak acid sites of ZSM-5 allow more precursor entry, transforming to highly dispersed Pt clusters during calcination.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization by XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, the enhanced performance of PtSn/SAPO-34 is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene with high performance. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, enabling mononuclear active sites when loading is low. The optimal 10wt% Zn-loaded catalyst achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, with excellent stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, shows high selectivity, activity, and stability, converting propane to propylene with 40% conversion and 92% selectivity. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, performs best. Sn-Beta zeolites are stable under harsh conditions for 72 hours, offering potential for advanced PDH catalysts. Theoretical calculations confirm the direct pathway for dehydrogenation is more feasible, and open sites are more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts catalytic activity and propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Key factors for improved performance include the presence of isolated Zn(OH)+ species and the balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions requiring Brønsted acid sites. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, shows a 1100% increase in TOF and enhanced propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and high stability. The zeolitic framework surrounding interior Pt clusters decreases the d-band center, weakening propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed the highest and most stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h time-on-stream. Propene selectivity exceeded 90% over zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. Zinc introduction by ion exchange retains the specific surface area and inhibits zinc loss. The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates platinum is affected by zinc presence. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530 C suggests another less noble species associated with zinc. The different zinc incorporation methods did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to create Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests improves metal dispersion and stabilization, boosting PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are active for PDH. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes catalyst deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn incorporation. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading due to pore blocking. Sn modifies catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR analysis reveal negligible acidity changes with Sn loading, with highest ammonia uptake at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn loads form Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation, and Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability by suppressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This interaction enhances propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, demonstrating the critical role of V aggregation in catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in the T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency to propylene. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and selectivity. The induction period is shortened after reduction treatment. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, with maximal conversions of 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta, respectively. The 0.5/1CoSiBeta catalysts maintain high and stable propylene selectivity around 98%. The CoSiBeta catalysts outperform others, demonstrating the superiority of Co confined in silanols as active sites for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably PtSnNa/SUZ-4 and PtSnNa/ZSM-5, is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, leading to reduced Sn oxide stability and catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was used for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and over 97% total olefins selectivity. Prepared by sequential impregnation, the catalyst was characterized using XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis. Metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. The catalyst's performance, superior to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving initial propane conversion of 53% and propylene selectivity of 93%. Dealumination suppresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low, contributing to the catalyst's stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with optimal Lewis acidity, converts 40% propane to propylene with 92% selectivity. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, with open sites being more reactive. Sn-Beta maintains activity without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours, offering potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts propane conversion in PDH reactions, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species proving more effective than larger clusters. Pore size and structure influence precursor accessibility and active species distribution. The type and strength of acid sites, alongside the balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions, are crucial for improved propylene selectivity and conversion. Catalyst stability is affected by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, enhancing catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, where clusters are inside, by 1100% in TOF and shows higher propylene selectivity. Exterior Pt clusters experience less coke deposition and maintain stability for 18 hours. The electronic state, zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors. The d-band center of interior Pt clusters is lowered by the zeolite framework, hindering propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolite catalysts, particularly Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc, exhibit high and stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion over 63 hours with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion-exchanged zinc inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in zeolites influences catalytic behavior, while the specific surface area is retained. Platinum reduction is affected by zinc, shifting reduction peaks to higher temperatures. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C indicates less noble species associated with zinc. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance for 63 hours with negligible zinc loss. Hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. Incorporation methods of zinc do not significantly impact the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based PDH catalysts. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts approach thermodynamic equilibrium conversions. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms contribute to high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain activity better than conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity, and the novel PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst offers improved stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating the transfer of carbon deposits from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) adversely affects performance. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing its formation, improving stability. The preparation involves mixing Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O for the SAPO-34 support, followed by sequential impregnation with SnCl2·2H2O and H2PtCl6 solutions. XRD, XRF, BET, TPD, TPR, and TPO analyses provide insights into the catalyst's structure, metallic content, surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies the acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn incorporation. Sn modifies surface character and decreases surface area, affecting geometry. Sn facilitates the transfer of carbon deposits, improving stereochemistry control and decreasing coke deposition, ultimately enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH reactions involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in excellent catalytic performance with high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx/SiBeta catalysts exhibit varying activities depending on V loading, which correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and selectivity. CoOx species confined in T-sites of SiBeta zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, acting as active sites for PDH. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, and its catalytic activity is maintained over four cycles, indicating deactivation is due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for 0.5CoSiBeta is exceptionally high, and its selectivity exceeds 97%. These findings highlight the role of small metallic Co particles as active sites, showing high catalytic activity and product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, minimizing carbon deposition, and stronger acid sites preventing Pt precursor penetration. Conversely, PtSnNa/ZSM-5's weaker acidity allows more Pt precursor into the zeolite, leading to reduced Sn oxides and decreased catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Sn oxide interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    