Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology influence the performance of various zeolite-based catalysts (particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Zeolite-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH): Preparation methods, characterization, and performance comparison of various zeolite types, with a focus on BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "For PDH, PtSn/SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Performance surpassed PtSn/ZSM-5, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as an effective PDH catalyst, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low, contributing to the catalyst's high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in PDH reactions, showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites and the direct pathway's feasibility. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances propane conversion and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species on both zeolites being more effective for propane conversion. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. For ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with Pt clusters on the exterior, exhibits a 11x higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity over Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside. Pt/NaX also shows less coke deposition and higher stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene selectivity, and increasing coke deposition. The surrounding framework's passivation effect weakens propane activation and hinders propylene desorption.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "Systematic investigation of PtZn-containing zeolite catalysts revealed that zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and zinc contents near 2.5 wt.% achieved the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, closely matching thermodynamic equilibrium for dehydrogenation to propene. Over 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta, stable conversion was observed for 63 h with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was discussed, affecting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Zinc introduction by ion exchange in Na-ZSM-5 inhibited zinc loss. The best-performing PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite maintained stable performance and high propene selectivity for 63 h with negligible zinc loss, demonstrating the significance of preparation methods and composition on PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve thermodynamic equilibrium conversions. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, enhancing propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Novel PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer. Increased Sn content beyond 1 wt % harms performance. Sn reduces coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn loading up to 1 wt % boosts performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts stability and activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn affects catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid sites, favoring propylene selectivity. At higher Sn (1.2 wt %), higher acidity blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "In PDH, the post-synthesis strategy of dealumination and metal impregnation enhances Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts. Sn species integrate into the Si-beta framework, promoting ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion. This results in high propene formation rates and selectivity (>99%) at 550-600°C. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in Si-beta prevent coke and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species. Notably, the initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the confinement of CoOx species in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite leads to ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The Co species are mainly CoOx at T-sites. Catalysts with and without prereduction show similar performance, indicating that CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction. The initial propane conversion and propylene selectivity increase with Co loading, stabilizing at high values for 0.5/1CoSiBeta. The 10CoSiBeta initially shows null propylene selectivity, indicating side reactions, but PDH becomes predominant as selectivity rises. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, suggesting a common active phase. The Co2p XPS spectra confirm the presence of metallic Co after reduction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for PDH at 550 C is high, with propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing the catalyst's superiority. The small metallic Co particles, generated by CoOx reduction, are the active sites, demonstrating high catalytic activity, selectivity, and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5, showcasing higher activity and stability. This is attributed to Pt's external distribution on SUZ-4, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. Conversely, ZSM-5's weaker acidity leads to less interaction with Sn oxides, making them easier to reduce and decreasing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak sites allow deeper Pt dispersion, affecting activity. Key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Its performance was compared with PtSn/ZSM-5. The catalyst's enhanced efficiency is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting the acidic strength or structural topology of SAPO-34.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites in the zeolite framework accommodate metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This catalyst exhibits high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and stability, making it a promising option for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in a BEA framework, exhibits high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations suggest dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathway is kinetically more feasible, and open sites are more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts propane conversion and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed by ALD, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The type and strength of acid sites on the parent and ALD ZnO modified zeolites influence reaction pathways. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. Precise control over ZnO size and distribution through ALD impacts catalytic activity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on zeolites significantly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, where clusters are inside, by enhancing TOF and propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to decreased selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta zeolite demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was noted, with zinc introduction by ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The PtZn-containing zeolite Na-Beta showed high propane conversion and propene selectivity for 63 hours, maintaining stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The different zinc incorporation methods had minimal impact on large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based PDH catalysts' performance. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites boosts PDH performance through abundant silanol nests that improve metal dispersion. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts enhances propylene selectivity by weakening Bronsted acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are active for PDH. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Sn content up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher levels are detrimental. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 is made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and reducing carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier movement of intermediates to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing coke formation, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, integrating Sn into tetrahedral coordination states of Si-beta. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles at 550 C, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in Si-beta, inhibiting coke and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and over 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Earth-abundant Co shows promise for long-term PDH catalysis. CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, with 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta, respectively. Propylene selectivities are high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, stabilizing at 98%. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar catalytic activity (80%) and propylene selectivity (93%), indicating transformation into the same active phases. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high catalytic activity and shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The CoSiBeta catalysts' reusability is confirmed over four cycles, with deactivation primarily due to carbon deposits, not cobalt sintering. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst has a high TOF value (32.9 h-1) for PDH at 550 C and maintains propylene selectivity above 97%, demonstrating superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to greater Pt availability on the external surface, minimizing carbon deposition and deactivation. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing Sn oxides to a metallic state and decreasing catalytic activity. Key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Characterization via XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis confirmed the catalyst's integrity. The catalyst's performance, compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, was enhanced by SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting its acidic strength or structural topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as an efficient PDH catalyst, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination minimizes side reactions by reducing strong acid sites, enhancing activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming active sites when loading is low. This preparation method yields a stable catalyst with reusability, optimizing PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). It activates propane's C-H bond at high temperatures, showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect pathways, with open sites being more reactive based on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances PDH catalytic activity, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. On Y zeolite, ALD eliminates Brønsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites, while on ZSM-5, Brønsted acid sites are only partially removed. The pore structure affects the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, shows a dramatic increase in TOF and propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where clusters are inside. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to decreased selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content showed the highest and most stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The presence of zinc affects platinum reduction and introduces a less noble species. Zinc loss is inhibited in zeolite Na-ZSM-5 by ion exchange. The catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss for 63 h. Hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. Different zinc incorporation methods did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly affect zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated PtSn in Si-Beta channels leads to high propane conversion, selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts achieve near 100% propylene selectivity. Encapsulated Pt in Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH rates. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 has higher propylene selectivity and yield due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimum conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn incorporation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metallic content, and BET measures surface area. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn loading. The highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn loads form Sn0 species. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stereochemistry control and catalyst stability by decreasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts with high propene formation rates and selectivity (>99%) at 550-600°C. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) with varying V loadings exhibit different catalytic activities. The activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which originate from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V has a minor impact on catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in T-sites of SiBeta zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. Metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to side reactions. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The Co species are mainly CoOx at T-sites, and confined CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction. The catalysts show similar performance after 0.5 h on stream, regardless of initial cobalt states, indicating the same active sites function after external cobalt species are covered with coke. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates ideal reusability and high TOF values, with propylene selectivity above 97%. The small metallic Co particles generated by the reduction of confined CoOx are the active sites, showing great catalytic activity and high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, unlike the weak acid sites of ZSM-5, which lead to more dispersed Pt clusters. This, combined with reduced Sn oxide reduction to the metallic state, enhances catalytic activity. Key factors for improved PDH outcomes include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was developed for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Prepared by sequential impregnation, it was characterized using multiple techniques, confirming that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. The catalyst's performance, notably higher than PtSn/ZSM-5, is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as an efficient PDH catalyst, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Eliminating lattice Al atoms reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites post-dealumination accommodate metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This results in a stable catalyst with reusability, demonstrating initial propane conversion of 53% and propylene selectivity of 93%.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in PDH, activating propane's C-H bond at high temperatures with high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations confirm propane dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, with Na-Sn-Beta-30 achieving 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta's stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours underscores its potential for PDH catalysts. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites significantly enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and the accessibility of reactants to active sites. For ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles. The dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of zeolites are key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt/NaX catalysts, with Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite, exhibit 1100% higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. Pt/NaX also shows less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity and conversion. Pt clusters with a lower d-band center, influenced by the zeolitic framework, are less effective for propane activation, while the framework around enclosed Pt clusters suppresses propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst exhibited stable conversion rates near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc incorporation through impregnation or ion exchange did not significantly alter the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was noted, affecting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Zinc introduction by ion exchange into Na-ZSM-5 inhibited zinc loss during experiments.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, boosting metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in conversion and selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, enhancing selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high dispersion, conversion, selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability due to coke distribution. PtSn/SAPO-34 has higher selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes catalyst activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and carbon deposit transfer. Increased Sn content beyond 1 wt % harms performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio. Bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metals, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and activity. XRD shows unaltered support structure. XRF confirms metal loading. BET indicates surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn affects catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect on acidity. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher, but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, modifying Pt ensembles, and decreasing coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. An improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, leads to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in excellent PDH catalytic performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework enhance stability by inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining catalytic activity during multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities with different V loadings. Catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which are formed from the interaction between VOx species and SiBeta. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Pt@Sn-Beta, formed by anchoring platinum precursors in Beta zeolite with framework-Sn, exhibits high stability in propane dehydrogenation. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in the T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during reactions, acts as active sites. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment. CoOx at T-sites can be reduced to metallic Co during reactions, and all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, regardless of initial cobalt states. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%. Small metallic Co particles, generated by CoOx reduction, are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on its external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction with Sn oxides, making them easier to reduce to the metallic state, reducing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while ZSM-5's weak acid sites allow more precursor entry, forming highly dispersed Pt clusters. These factors contribute to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization by various methods confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Performance surpassed that of PtSn/ZSM-5, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) with high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, stability, and reusability. Eliminating lattice Al atoms depresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites can anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This preparation method significantly improves the performance of zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, exhibits high selectivity, good activity, and excellent stability, activating propane's C-H bond at high temperatures. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours, suggesting potential for advanced PDH catalysts. Propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites, with the direct pathway being kinetically more feasible than the indirect one.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances PDH catalytic activity, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species formed after the first ALD cycle being more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics. The type and strength of acid sites, pore structure, and dispersion of ZnO species significantly impact propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, improving catalytic activity and stability. The pore size and topology affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility, with precursor molecules infiltrating micropores differently on ZSM-5 and Y zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, showed a 1100% higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside. Pt/NaX also exhibited less coke deposition and high stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and the diffusion effect are key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity and conversion rates. The lower d-band center of Pt clusters in Pt@NaX weakens propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios > 8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc exhibited the highest and most stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h time-on-stream. Propene selectivity exceeded 90% over zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios. The catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss for 63 h.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology significantly impact PDH catalyst performance. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to create Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests improves metal dispersion and stabilization, boosting PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are active for PDH. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes catalyst activity. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Sn content up to 1 wt% enhances performance, but higher levels are detrimental. Sn reduces coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Sn changes interfacial character and facilitates carbon deposit transfer. Optimal conditions are 585 C, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt% improves performance, but beyond that, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. SAPO-34 structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn. Peaks for Pt and Sn are not observed due to low concentration, but they are monodispersed. Peak height decreases with Sn loading, possibly due to surface character changes. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect on acidity with Sn (0.8-1.2 wt%). Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt%)Sn(1 wt%)/SAPO-34. Decreased peak intensities after increasing Sn loading reduce Bronsted acid sites, improving stereochemistry control. At higher Sn (1.2 wt%), both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn leads to Sn0 species. Reduction peaks at higher temperatures indicate good Pt-support interaction. Increased Sn shifts peaks to lower reduction temperatures, indicating Sn0 species. Direct anchored Pt sites are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds and allowing intermediates to move to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing coke formation, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts, involving H-beta dealumination and metal impregnation, leads to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn's confinement effect in Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Higher V loadings increase propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta. This catalyst exhibits high stability in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity, due to zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibiting coke formation and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in the T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during the reaction, acts as active sites. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows superior propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but also lead to cracking and carbon deposition. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, indicating that cobalt species transform into the same active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains high activity and selectivity over four cycles, with deactivation primarily due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for PDH at 550 C is 32.9 h-1, with propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing the catalyst's superiority and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, affecting Sn oxide reduction and decreasing catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity in propane dehydrogenation, outperforming PtSn/ZSM-5. Prepared by sequential impregnation, the catalyst's performance was attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting its acidic strength or structural topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite-supported ZnO nanoclusters demonstrate high catalytic performance in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving superior propylene selectivity and stability. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites under low loading conditions. The optimal catalyst exhibits an initial propane conversion of around 53% and a propylene selectivity of about 93%, with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions. Theoretical calculations confirm that dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites and the direct pathway is more feasible than the indirect one, with open sites being more reactive based on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO on ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts PDH activity, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species enhancing propane conversion to propylene and aromatics. Pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ZnO incorporation, play a crucial role in reaction pathways. For improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability, the dispersion and form of ZnO species, pore structure, and acid site type are key factors.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, shows a 1100% higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. The zeolitic framework surrounding the Pt clusters in Pt@NaX decreases the d-band center, weakening propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition. This highlights the electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects as key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites contributes to catalytic behavior. Catalyst stability and selectivity were maintained over extended periods, with negligible zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc had minimal impact on large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve near 100% propylene selectivity. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing the catalyst's activity. The PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst exhibits superior stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn reduces coke deposition, improving stability. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are made through sequential impregnation. XRD, XRF, BET, TPD, TPR, TPO, and IR spectroscopy provide insights into the catalyst's structure, metallic content, surface properties, reduction behavior, and acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % boosts catalytic performance, but beyond this, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn content significantly affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 structure is preserved. Pt and Sn are monodispersed initially. Increasing Sn loading decreases surface area due to pore blocking. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds and allowing easier movement of intermediates to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing coke formation, enhancing stability. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation, unlike direct anchored Pt sites. The presence of Sn facilitates the transfer of carbon deposits from metal sites to the support.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, integrating Sn into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn's confinement effect, inhibiting coke and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rates increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring high propane conversion and propene selectivity over extended periods in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in the T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows superior propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, stabilizing at 98% during the reaction. The confined CoOx species can be reduced to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts show similar catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, indicating the transformation of cobalt species into the same active phases. The small metallic Co particles are the active sites, showing great catalytic activity with high product selectivity and ideal reusability. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates the highest TOF value and propylene selectivity above 97%, outperforming other Co catalysts and comparable to industrial standards.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to its external Pt distribution, minimizing carbon deposition and deactivation. The strong acidity of SUZ-4 prevents Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weaker acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing Sn oxides more easily to the metallic state and decreasing catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Sn oxide reduction.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. The catalyst's performance, notably higher than PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) with high initial conversion and selectivity for propylene. Eliminating lattice Al atoms reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites can anchor metal species, even forming mononuclear active sites at low loading amounts, contributing to the catalyst's high performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, favoring the direct pathway over the indirect one, with open sites being more reactive. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective than larger ZnO clusters. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on parent and modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. Pore size and topology affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility to active sites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, showing a 1100% TOF increase and better propylene selectivity. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, impacting propane activation and propylene desorption. Enclosed Pt clusters experience a passivation effect, reducing propylene selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal conversion and selectivity were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. Notably, zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affected activity and selectivity, with ion-exchanged zinc inhibiting loss during experiments. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was discussed, impacting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. The best-performing PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite maintained high conversion and selectivity rates for extended periods, with negligible zinc loss.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, enhancing metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated PtSn in Si-Beta channels leads to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve near 100% propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt in Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% initial activity, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability due to coke distribution. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is preserved. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metals, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn loading decreases surface area, affecting geometry. NH3-TPD shows negligible acidity changes. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn. Increased Sn shifts reduction peaks, forming Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability by suppressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH reactions involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in excellent catalytic performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts supported on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, with VOx aggregation being the determining factor. Initial V valence state does not influence performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. This method inhibits coke formation and sintering, achieving 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH, showcasing excellent stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites (silanols) of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and over 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C. Co loading influences catalytic performance, with initial propane conversion increasing from 40% for 0.5CoSiBeta to 86% for 10CoSiBeta. Propylene selectivities are high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, stabilizing at about 98%. Prereduction treatments shorten the induction period, and confined CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction, acting as active sites. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits considerable catalytic activity with high propylene selectivity, and the catalytic activities of regenerated 0.5CoSiBeta are similar to fresh catalysts over four cycles, indicating deactivation is mainly due to carbon deposits. The TOF value of 0.5CoSiBeta reaches 32.9 h-1 for PDH at 550 C, with propylene selectivity above 97%. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on external surfaces, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction with Sn oxides, making them easier to reduce and decreasing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while ZSM-5's weak acid sites allow more precursor entry, forming highly dispersed Pt clusters. Key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    