Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology influence the performance of various zeolite-based catalysts (particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Zeolite-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH): Preparation methods, characterization, and performance comparison of various zeolite types, with a focus on BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization by various methods confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Performance was compared with PtSn/ZSM-5, with improved results attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. This catalyst displays high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity, with high stability and reusability. Eliminating lattice Al atoms from the β zeolite framework depresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites can anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when the loading is low. The optimal 10wt% Zn-loaded catalyst on dealuminated β zeolite achieves high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, showcasing its high performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in PDH, activating propane's C-H bond at high temperatures with high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathways are kinetically favored over indirect ones, with open sites being more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on parent and modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. For improved performance, the balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions requiring Brønsted acid sites is essential.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt/NaX, with Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite, outperforms Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside, by enhancing TOF by 1100% and improving propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the surrounding zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are critical for improved selectivity, conversion, and stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption, with exterior Pt clusters being more effective due to their higher d-band center and reduced coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content showed the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h time-on-stream. Propene selectivity exceeded 90% over zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with zinc species coexisting in various forms. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange, and the presence of zinc affects platinum reduction. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530 C indicates a less noble species associated with zinc. Zinc loss is inhibited in zeolite Na-ZSM-5 by ion exchange. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low, and catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance for 63 h with minimal zinc loss. The incorporation of zinc does not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. PtZn-Beta catalysts, prepared by Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation, show higher Pt dispersion and lower Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and catalytic stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes catalyst deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 molar ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn content up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher levels diminish reaction rates. Sn improves catalyst stability by reducing coke deposition. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metallic content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn's presence has a negligible effect on acidity, but it reduces the intensity of Bronsted acid sites, improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher, but they block Pt active sites, reducing conversion. Sn improves Pt reduction properties, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation, and Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, leading to Sn species incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes high dispersion of Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts demonstrate excellent PDH performance with high propene selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the confinement of CoOx species in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite leads to ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. CoOx species at T-sites are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The Co species are mainly CoOx at the T-sites. Catalysts with and without prereduction treatments show similar performance, indicating that CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, with maximal conversions of 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta, respectively. Propylene selectivities are high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, stabilizing at 98%. The 3CoSiBeta catalyst's initial propylene selectivity is 92%, increasing continuously. 10CoSiBeta initially shows null propylene selectivity, indicating side reactions, but rapidly increases to 92%, suggesting PDH predominance. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, indicating the transformation of cobalt species into the same active phases. The Co2p XPS spectra confirm the presence of metallic Co after reduction-oxidation treatment. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst's catalytic activity and propylene selectivity are maintained over four cycles, indicating deactivation by carbon deposits, not cobalt sintering. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst's TOF value is the highest, reaching 32.9 h-1 at 550 C, with 97% propylene selectivity. The small metallic Co particles generated by the reduction of confined CoOx are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity and product selectivity, as well as ideal reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to greater Pt availability on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction between Sn oxides and the support, facilitating easier reduction to the metallic state, reducing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while ZSM-5's weak acid sites allow more precursor entry, forming highly dispersed Pt clusters. Key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization by various methods confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Performance surpassed that of PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a novel catalyst for PDH, achieving high initial propane conversion (~53%) and superior propylene selectivity (~93%). Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites at low loading amounts, which contributes to the catalyst's high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with optimal Lewis acidity, delivers 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, with the direct pathway favored over indirect. Sn-Beta's stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours and its ability to activate propane's C-H bond at high temperatures make it a promising PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Catalyst stability is influenced by factors like coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The type and strength of acid sites on parent and ALD ZnO-modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. For instance, ALD of ZnO into Y zeolite eliminates Brønsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites, while on ZSM-5, Brønsted acid sites are only partially removed. The balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions requiring Brønsted acid sites is key to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, with interior clusters, by enhancing TOF by 1100% and improving propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to decreased selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and zinc contents ~2.5 wt.% showed the highest and most stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr ~29%) at 555°C and 0.1 MPa for 63 h. Propene selectivity exceeded 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. Ion exchange inhibited zinc loss. The shift in platinum reduction peak and hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C on 0.5Pt4.4Zn/Na-ZSM-5 indicated zinc's effect on platinum. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance for 63 h with negligible zinc loss. Hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates were low. Incorporation methods of zinc did not significantly affect large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability over PtSnNa/ZSM-5. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing metal-support interaction, and facilitates carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 structure is preserved. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. Sn loading decreases surface area, impacting geometry. NH3-TPD shows negligible effect on acidity with Sn loading, improving stereochemistry control over propylene selectivity. H2-TPR indicates improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn loads form Sn0 species. Direct Pt-SAPO-34 sites are inactive, but Pt-SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability by reducing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, enhances performance. Sn species integrate into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states, promoting ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts demonstrate high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn's confinement effect in Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying activities with different V loadings. Catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx-SiBeta interactions. VOx aggregation degree determines propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, both increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta with remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites (silanols) of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and over 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co loading impacts conversion rates, with 0.5CoSiBeta achieving 53% conversion, while higher loadings increase conversion to 81%. Propylene selectivity is high and stable at 98% for 0.5/1CoSiBeta. The confined CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates considerable catalytic activity with high propylene selectivity, and the induction period is shortened after reduction treatment. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The CoSiBeta catalysts' performance is comparable to industrial catalysts, with high reusability and intrinsic activity for PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows more precursor entry, leading to dispersed Pt clusters. Sn oxides on ZSM-5 are more easily reduced to the metallic state, decreasing hydrocarbon dehydrogenation activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was developed for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Prepared by sequential impregnation, it was characterized using XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis. Metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Performance surpassed that of PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite-supported ZnO nanoclusters serve as an efficient PDH catalyst, achieving high initial propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination minimizes side reactions by reducing strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites under low loading, which contributes to the catalyst's high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species proving more effective than larger clusters. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ALD, guide reaction pathways. Pore size and topology affect ZnO distribution and reactant accessibility, with ALD allowing precise control over ZnO clusters, impacting activity and stability. For ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles. Improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability are attributed to the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Exterior Pt clusters on X-zeolite boost TOF by 1100% and propylene selectivity, compared to interior clusters. The exterior Pt/NaX catalyst exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. Key factors for improved performance include the electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework's influence on the d-band center, and diffusion effects. Interior Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, hindering propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the preparation methods, composition, and topology of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, significantly impact performance. Optimal results were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity, with zinc species coexisting in various forms. The specific surface area was retained when zinc was introduced by ion exchange, and the presence of zinc affected the reduction of platinum. The hydrogen consumption peak indicated the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. Zinc introduction by ion exchange inhibited zinc loss. The best catalyst maintained stable performance for 63 hours with negligible zinc loss.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. PtZn-Beta catalysts, prepared by Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation, exhibit higher Pt dispersion and lower Zn loss, achieving propane conversion of 30% and propylene selectivity of 90%. Dealumination of Beta zeolites to Si-Beta enhances PDH performance through abundant silanol nests. Co/Si-Beta catalysts show superior propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes catalyst deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 molar ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn content up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher levels diminish reaction rates. Sn loading affects catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn incorporation. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading due to pore blocking. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD reveals negligible acidity changes with Sn loading, with highest ammonia uptake at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and increased Sn loading shifts reduction peaks to lower temperatures, indicating Sn0 species formation. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stereochemistry control and catalyst stability by decreasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation. This leads to Sn species incorporation into the Si-beta framework and the high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rates increase with higher V loadings, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but can lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment. CoOx at T-sites can be reduced to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. After 0.5 h on stream, all tested catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, indicating transformation into the same active phases. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to side reactions. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably PtSnNa/SUZ-4 and PtSnNa/ZSM-5, is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on its external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction between Sn oxides and the support, making them easier to reduce to the metallic state, thus decreasing catalytic activity. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while the weak acid sites of ZSM-5 allow more precursor entry, transforming to highly dispersed Pt clusters. The distribution of Pt, acidity of the zeolite, and interactions between Pt, Sn, and support are critical for improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization via various methods confirmed the stability of the zeolite's acidic strength and topology. The catalyst's performance, notably its selectivity, was superior to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, supporting small ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, achieving high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, forming active sites when loading is low. This preparation method significantly improves PDH reaction outcomes.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with optimal Lewis acidity, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta's stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours and its direct pathway for dehydrogenation highlight its potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. The type and strength of acid sites on the parent and ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. For ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt cluster location on X-zeolite, either on the exterior or inside, markedly affects catalytic performance, with exterior Pt clusters enhancing TOF and propylene selectivity by 1100% compared to interior clusters. The exterior Pt/NaX catalyst exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, modulated by the zeolitic framework to a lower d-band center, is less effective for propane activation. The framework surrounding interior Pt clusters suppresses propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition, attributed to the passivation effect of the zeolitic framework.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal conversion and selectivity were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion-exchanged zinc inhibiting loss during experiments. The presence of various zinc species in zeolites was noted, impacting the reduction peak of platinum and indicating less noble species associated with zinc. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance for 63 hours with minimal zinc loss, highlighting the importance of zinc content and location for high conversion and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Catalysts prepared via Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation exhibit higher Pt dispersion and lower Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination of Beta zeolites to create Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests improves metal dispersion and stabilization, boosting PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts display higher propylene formation TOF than previous Co catalysts. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Pt@MCM-22 retains about 90% of initial activity after reaction-regeneration cycles, outperforming conventional Pt/MCM-22. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites in side pores.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing metal-support interaction, and facilitates carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content affects catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. SAPO-34 support preparation mixes Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn loading decreases surface area, impacting geometry. NH3-TPD shows negligible effect on acidity with Sn loading, with small shifts toward lower temperatures. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stereochemistry control and catalyst stability by decreasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, creates Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH. Sn species integrate into the Si-beta framework, promoting high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying activities, with catalytic performance linearly related to the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, demonstrating the critical role of VOx aggregation in influencing catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters within zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring high stability and 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in SiBeta zeolite's T-sites form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates state-of-the-art propylene productivity with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co loading impacts conversion rates, with higher loadings leading to increased initial propane conversion. Propylene selectivity is high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta catalysts, while it increases continuously for 3CoSiBeta. Initially, only side reactions occur for 10CoSiBeta, but propylene selectivity rapidly rises to 92% as PDH becomes predominant. All catalysts show similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, indicating transformation into the same active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains activity over four cycles, proving deactivation is due to carbon deposits, not cobalt sintering. The catalyst exhibits a high TOF value and propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing its superiority. Small metallic Co particles, generated by CoOx reduction, are the active sites with high product selectivity and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, unlike ZSM-5's weak sites, which lead to dispersed Pt clusters. Sn oxides on ZSM-5 are more easily reduced, reducing catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, the enhanced performance of PtSn/SAPO-34 is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as an efficient PDH catalyst, achieving high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites can anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This optimal catalyst exhibits high stability and reusability, making it a promising choice for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with optimal Lewis acidity, converts 40% propane to propylene with 92% selectivity. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, favoring the direct pathway over indirect for efficiency. Sn-Beta's stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours and its role in activating propane's C-H bond at high temperatures make it a promising PDH catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ALD, play a crucial role in reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is affected by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. For BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, the key to improved performance lies in the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, where clusters are inside, by enhancing TOF by 1100% and improving propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and high stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the Pt clusters' electronic state, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Exterior Pt clusters have a higher d-band center, superior for propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to enhanced selectivity and reduced coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the preparation methods, composition, and topology of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, significantly impact performance. Optimal results were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst demonstrated stable conversion rates near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity, with ion-exchanged zinc inhibiting loss during experiments. Catalyst stability and selectivity were maintained over extended periods, highlighting the importance of zinc content and location for improved PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based PDH catalysts. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% initial activity, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer. Sn content up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher levels are detrimental. Sn reduces coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with specific molar ratios. Bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content. BET, TPD, TPR, TPO, and IR spectroscopy provide insights into surface properties, reduction, and acidity. Sn up to 1.2 wt % has a negligible effect on acidity, but reduces intensity of Bronsted acid sites, favoring propylene selectivity. At higher Sn, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in excellent PDH performance with high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework enhance stability by inhibiting coke formation and Pt sintering, maintaining catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying activities correlating with the amount of generated acidic sites. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate are influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species, increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency to propylene. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high catalytic activity and selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. The confined CoOx species transform into the same active phases during the reaction, regardless of initial states. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, showing great catalytic activity, high product selectivity, and ideal reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5, showcasing higher activity and stability. This superiority is attributed to Pt's predominant external surface distribution on SUZ-4, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. Conversely, PtSnNa/ZSM-5's weaker acidity leads to less interaction between Sn oxides and the support, making them easier to reduce to the metallic state, thus reducing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows more precursor entry, affecting Pt dispersion and activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "For direct propane dehydrogenation to propylene, a PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared via sequential impregnation. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter the acidic strength or structural topology of SAPO-34. The PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst achieved 94% propylene selectivity and over 97% total olefins selectivity, outperforming PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. The enhanced performance is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters supported on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving significant propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination, by removing lattice Al atoms, reduces side reactions and enhances catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This preparation method yields a stable and reusable catalyst with superior PDH performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect pathways, with open sites being more reactive based on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on parent and ALD ZnO-modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species on both zeolites after the first cycle being more effective for propane conversion. Catalyst stability is influenced by factors such as coke formation, sintering, and evaporation of ZnO species.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts the performance of zeolite-based catalysts. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, shows superior TOF and propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are internal. The zeolitic framework surrounding internal Pt clusters modulates the d-band center, hindering propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl-ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc incorporation through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. Ion-exchanged zinc inhibits loss during experiments, and the presence of various zinc species in zeolites is discussed. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The different zinc incorporation methods have a minor impact on the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn loading up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content significantly impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. The SAPO-34 support's structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn incorporation. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading due to pore blocking. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR analysis show negligible effect of Sn on acidity, with highest ammonia uptake at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability by suppressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, integrating Sn into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes high dispersion of Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles at 550 C, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement that inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by VOx aggregation. The initial valence state of V does not impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, show state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. The confinement of CoOx species in T-sites (silanols) of dealuminated Beta zeolite facilitates the formation of ultrasmall Co particles, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but can lead to cracking and carbon deposition, affecting selectivity. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment. CoOx species at T-sites are reducible to metallic Co during reactions, acting as active sites. Catalysts with different Co loadings and pretreatments show similar catalytic activity and selectivity after initial stages, indicating the transformation of cobalt species into active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation primarily due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak sites allow deeper Pt dispersion, leading to reduced Sn oxide catalytic activity. Propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability are enhanced by Pt distribution and zeolite acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization via various methods confirmed the catalyst's stability and topology. Performance was compared with PtSn/ZSM-5, highlighting SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity as key factors for improved PDH efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite-supported ZnO nanoclusters serve as an efficient PDH catalyst, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and stability. Vacant T-atom sites anchor metal species, forming active sites for optimal performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, shows high selectivity, activity, and stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours. Propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, and open sites are more reactive than closed ones, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts propane conversion and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion rates. The pore structure of zeolites affects the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility, with ZSM-5 and Y zeolites showing different infiltration patterns during ALD cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite (Pt/NaX) enhance TOF by 1100% and improve propylene selectivity compared to Pt clusters inside (Pt@NaX). Pt/NaX exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability after 18 hours. Key factors for improved performance include the electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects. The zeolite's negative framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation. Enclosed Pt clusters face passivation and reduced propylene desorption, leading to decreased selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed highest stable conversion rates, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) over 63 h. Propene selectivity exceeded 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects catalytic behavior, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites impacts activity. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in platinum reduction peak indicates platinum's interaction with zinc. Hydrogen consumption at 530 C suggests the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios (≤3.4) showed similar catalytic behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance for 63 h with minimal zinc loss. Hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates were low.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination of Beta zeolites to Si-Beta creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH rates. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability due to coke distribution. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity, with PtSn/SAPO-34 showing improved stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made via sequential impregnation. XRD, XRF, and BET confirm structure, metal content, and surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % boosts performance, but beyond this, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn content affects catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows no alteration in SAPO-34's structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area reduction with increased Sn loading. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effects on acidity with Sn loading. The highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, modifying Pt ensembles and improving stereochemistry control.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination and metal impregnation, integrating Sn into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration across multiple cycles, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn's confinement effect, inhibiting coke and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying activities with different V loadings. Catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which are influenced by VOx-SiBeta interaction. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, determined by VOx aggregation degree.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta with remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency to propylene. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co loading impacts performance, with higher loadings leading to increased propane conversion. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, with values stabilizing at about 98% during the reaction. The CoSiBeta catalysts' superiority is evident, showing great catalytic activity, high product selectivity, and ideal reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, unlike ZSM-5's weak sites, which allow deeper Pt dispersion, leading to reduced Sn oxide interactions and decreased catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    