Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology influence the performance of various zeolite-based catalysts (particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Zeolite-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH): Preparation methods, characterization, and performance comparison of various zeolite types, with a focus on BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Its performance, compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, was enhanced by larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, creating a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation with high initial conversion and propylene selectivity, alongside stability and reusability. Eliminating lattice Al atoms depresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in PDH, activating propane's C-H bond at high temperatures with high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, rich in Lewis acid sites, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Theoretical calculations confirm the direct pathway's feasibility for dehydrogenation and the reactivity of open sites over closed ones, contingent on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances PDH catalytic activity and propylene selectivity by creating isolated Zn(OH)+ species, which are more effective for propane conversion. The pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species formed after the first cycle being key for propylene and aromatics production. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions requiring Brønsted acid sites is essential for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, featuring interior clusters, by enhancing TOF and propylene selectivity, and reducing coke deposition. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption, thus influencing selectivity and stability. Exterior Pt clusters benefit from a less confined environment, improving catalyst efficiency in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite topology, preparation methods, and composition significantly impact catalyst performance. PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed the highest and most stable propane conversions, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) over 63 h. Propene selectivity exceeded 90% on zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. Ion-exchanged zinc inhibited loss during experiments. The presence of various zinc species in zeolites was noted, affecting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios (≤3.4) showed similar catalytic behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly affect zeolite-based catalysts' performance in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, enhancing metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and catalytic stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve near 100% propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% initial activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. Pt distribution on SUZ-4 and ZSM-5 supports affects coke distribution and stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. SAPO-34 support preparation mixes Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metals, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn loading up to 1.2 wt % has a negligible effect on acidity, with small shifts toward lower temperatures. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities depending on V loading. The catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, with the aggregation degree of VOx species being a key factor.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta with enhanced stability in PDH. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in SiBeta zeolite's T-sites forms ultrasmall Co particles, enhancing efficiency (Quote 1). CoSiBeta catalysts, especially those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit high propylene productivity, surpassing other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards (Quote 4). Metallic Co, formed in situ during reactions, acts as active sites (Quote 29). Propylene selectivity and propane conversion increase with Co loading, with 0.5CoSiBeta showing high selectivity and conversion (Quotes 10, 13, 15). After 0.5 h on stream, all tested catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, indicating transformation into the same active phases (Quote 22). Catalysts show similar deactivation trends, with activity and selectivity stabilizing over time (Quote 23). The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains its activity over four cycles, indicating deactivation is due to carbon deposits, not cobalt sintering (Quote 30). It also has the highest TOF value and propylene selectivity (Quotes 31, 35).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on its external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to more dispersed Sn oxides, reducing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acid sites allow deeper Pt dispersion, affecting activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, the enhanced performance of PtSn/SAPO-34 is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite-supported ZnO nanoclusters serve as a novel, high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and propylene selectivity. The optimal catalyst, with 10wt% Zn loading, achieves a 53% initial propane conversion and 93% propylene selectivity, alongside high stability and reusability. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low, contributing to the catalyst's efficiency.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, delivers optimal PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Theoretical calculations reveal that dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, and the direct pathway is more feasible than the indirect one, with open sites being more reactive than closed ones, depending on hydroxylation extents. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. The type and strength of acid sites on the parent and ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites are key factors contributing to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Pt/NaX catalysts, with Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite, outperform Pt@NaX catalysts, where Pt clusters are inside. Pt/NaX exhibits a significant increase in TOF and propylene selectivity, with less coke deposition and higher stability. The zeolitic framework surrounding the Pt clusters in Pt@NaX decreases the d-band center, weakening propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the preparation methods, composition, and topology of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, significantly impact performance. Optimal conversion and selectivity were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios over 8.7 and zinc contents near 2.5 wt.%. The zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta exhibited stable conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene for 63 hours, with propene selectivity exceeding 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity, with zinc species of varying charges coexisting in ion-exchanged zeolites. The specific surface area was retained when zinc was introduced by ion exchange, and the presence of zinc affected platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. The catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc did not significantly alter the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability due to coke distribution. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Increased Sn content beyond 1 wt % negatively impacts performance. Sn reduces coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Sn loading up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect of Sn on acidity, with small shifts in peaks indicating decreased acid intensity. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid sites, improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds and allowing intermediates to move to the support, decreasing coke deposition and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy, including dealumination and metal impregnation, creates Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH. Sn species integrate into the Si-beta framework, promoting ultra-small Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. These catalysts exhibit high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores enhance stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, achieving 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during the reaction, acts as active sites. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows superior propylene productivity with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, with maximal conversions around 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta, respectively. Propylene selectivities are high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, reaching about 98%. The initial selectivity of 10CoSiBeta is null, indicating initial side reactions, but rapidly increases to 92% as PDH becomes predominant. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, suggesting a transformation into the same active phases. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains its activity over four cycles, indicating deactivation is due to carbon deposits, not cobalt sintering. Its TOF value is the highest at 32.9 h-1 for PDH at 550 C, with propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction between Sn oxides and the support, making Sn oxides easier to reduce, thus decreasing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while ZSM-5's weak acid sites allow more precursor entry, forming highly dispersed Pt clusters. Key factors for improved PDH performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared via sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Its performance was compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. The enhanced results were attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting its acidic strength or structural topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. This catalyst displays high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Dealumination, by removing lattice Al atoms, reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites can anchor metal species, potentially forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. The optimal catalyst, with 10wt% Zn, achieves a propane conversion of 53% and 93% propylene selectivity at a space velocity of 4000cm3gcat1h1, with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions. Direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect pathways, with open sites being more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts propane conversion by creating highly dispersed ZnO species, enhancing catalytic activity. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The type and strength of acid sites, particularly the balance between Brønsted and Lewis acid sites, play a crucial role in reaction pathways. For improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability, the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites are key factors.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, shows a drastic increase in TOF and propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and the diffusion effect are critical for improved propylene selectivity and conversion rates. The d-band center of Pt clusters confined in zeolites is modulated to a lower value, hindering propane activation. The zeolitic framework surrounding the enclosed Pt clusters suppresses propylene desorption, reducing its selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content, yielding stable propane conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 hours and >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was noted. Zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta demonstrated stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc had minimal impact on large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms contribute to high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain activity better than conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn content up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher amounts are detrimental. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio. Bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn changes interfacial character and reduces carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement. Sn decreases coke formation, improving stability. The original SAPO-34 structure is unaltered. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, facilitates the incorporation of Sn into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts demonstrate high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn's confinement effect in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying activities with different V loadings. Catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which originate from VOx-SiBeta interactions. VOx aggregation degree determines propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during reactions, acts as active sites. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. Co(II) activates CH bonds in propane, and single-site Co2+ on silica supports propylene selectivity. Tetrahedral Co2+ in CoAl2O4 also serves as active sites. Small metallic Co particles in silanols are active, whereas bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles promote cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment. CoOx at T-sites of 0.5CoSiBeta can be reduced to metallic Co during reactions. Propylene selectivity increases with Co loading, stabilizing at 98% for 0.5/1CoSiBeta. Initial propylene selectivity is null for 10CoSiBeta, indicating initial side reactions, but rapidly increases to 92%, making PDH predominant. Catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, regardless of initial cobalt states. Active sites function after external cobalt species are covered with coke. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains activity over four cycles, indicating deactivation by carbon deposits, not sintering. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is 32.9 h-1, with 97% propylene selectivity, surpassing previous reports.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a greater external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acidity of SUZ-4 prevents Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weaker acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing Sn oxide stability. Key factors for enhanced PDH performance include external Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and stable Sn oxides.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Its performance was compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. The enhanced performance is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting its acidic strength or structural topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving initial propane conversion of 53% and 93% propylene selectivity. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites can anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low, and adjusting acidity by eliminating lattice Al atoms.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, offers optimal PDH performance, achieving 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible and reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. Pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. The type and strength of acid sites influence reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is affected by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. For improved performance, the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites are key factors.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, featuring a lower d-band center due to the zeolitic framework, which weakens propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to improved selectivity and stability. The diffusion effect and surrounding framework are key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity and reduced coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content exhibit the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h time-on-stream (TOS) with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites coexists and accounts for total zinc content. The specific surface area of zeolites is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates platinum's interaction with zinc. Hydrogen consumption at 530 C suggests the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios (≤3.4) show similar catalytic behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve near 100% propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn content up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher amounts diminish reaction rates. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with specific molar ratios, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metals, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn loading up to 1.2 wt % has a negligible effect on acidity, but decreases Bronsted acid sites, reducing propane cracking and improving propylene selectivity. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. Sn improves Pt reduction properties, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, modifies Pt ensembles, and decreases coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts, involving dealumination and metal impregnation, enhances PDH performance. Sn species integrate into the Si-beta framework, promoting ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion. This results in high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) with varied V loadings affect catalytic activity, which correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites. VOx species aggregation determines propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring high propane conversion and propene selectivity over extended periods in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during the reaction, acts as active sites. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co exhibits state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and over 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but lead to cracking and carbon deposition. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts show similar catalytic activity (80%) and propylene selectivity (93%), regardless of initial cobalt states. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains high activity and selectivity over four cycles, indicating deactivation is due to carbon deposits. The TOF value of 32.9 h-1 at 550 C for the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst is superior to previous reports, with propylene selectivity above 97%. Small metallic Co particles, generated by reduction of confined CoOx, are the active sites, showing high product selectivity and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to greater Pt availability on the external surface, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing catalytic activity. Sn oxide dispersion and reduction to the metallic state, influenced by zeolite acidity, also affect hydrocarbon dehydrogenation activity. Key factors for improved PDH performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Its performance was compared with PtSn/ZSM-5. The catalyst's improved selectivity is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting its acidic strength or structural topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high initial propane conversion (~53%) and superior propylene selectivity (~93%), with excellent stability and reusability. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when metal loading is low, contributing to the catalyst's performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible and reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. The type and strength of acid sites, particularly the balance between Brønsted and Lewis acid sites, influence reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is impacted by factors such as coke formation, sintering, and evaporation of ZnO species. Precise control over ZnO size and distribution through ALD contributes to improved performance and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, exhibits a 11x higher TOF and enhanced propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are internal. Pt/NaX also shows less coke deposition and high stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation. Enclosed Pt clusters face passivation, reducing propylene desorption and increasing coke deposition, impacting selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the preparation methods, composition, and topology of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, significantly impact performance. Optimal conversion and selectivity were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios above 8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 hours, with propene selectivity over 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity, with ion-exchanged zinc inhibiting loss during experiments. The presence of various zinc species in zeolites was noted, affecting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc did not significantly alter the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based PDH catalysts. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms contribute to near 100% propylene selectivity and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Sn content up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher amounts are detrimental. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn loading up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect on acidity with Sn loading. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds and allowing intermediates to move to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral states (Quote 2). This promotes ultra-small Pt nanocluster dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions (Quote 3). Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts show high propene formation rates and selectivity (Quote 4). Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles (Quote 5).", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites, which are created by the interaction between VOx species and the SiBeta support. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, as the aggregation degree of VOx species determines these factors. The initial valence state of V does not significantly impact catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring high propane conversion and propene selectivity over 250 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in SiBeta zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ, acts as active sites. CoSiBeta catalysts, especially with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit high propylene productivity, surpassing other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with the induction period shortened by reduction treatment. CoOx at T-sites is reducible to metallic Co during the reaction. Propylene selectivity increases with Co loading, stabilizing at 98% for 0.5/1CoSiBeta. Initial propylene selectivity is null for 10CoSiBeta, indicating initial side reactions, but rapidly increases to 92% as PDH becomes predominant. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, suggesting transformation into the same active phases. Small metallic Co particles are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains activity over four cycles, indicating deactivation by carbon deposits, not sintering. It shows the highest TOF value and propylene selectivity above 97%. The small metallic Co particles, generated by CoOx reduction, are active sites with high product selectivity and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows more precursor entry, leading to reduced Sn oxides and decreased catalytic activity. Key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared via sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. The catalyst's performance, notably higher than PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a novel, high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving initial propane conversion of 53% and propylene selectivity of 93%. Dealumination reduces side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites under low loading, contributing to the catalyst's stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, offers optimal PDH performance, converting 40% propane to 92% propylene. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, with open sites being more reactive. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours, suggesting a promising pathway for propylene production.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species proving more effective than larger clusters. The topology, including pore size and structure, affects precursor accessibility and active species distribution. Composition, particularly ZnO loading and form, impacts selectivity and conversion rates. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The type and strength of acid sites on parent and modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways. ALD ZnO on Y zeolite eliminates Brønsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites, while on ZSM-5, Brønsted sites are only partially removed. Pore structure affects ZnO species distribution and reactant accessibility, with ZSM-5 micropores infiltrated during the first ALD cycle and Y zeolite micropores during the first three cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, featuring interior clusters, by enhancing TOF by 1100% and improving propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and the diffusion effect are critical for propylene selectivity and conversion. The framework's negative charge modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption, impacting selectivity and coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolite catalysts, particularly Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc, achieved the highest and most stable propane conversions near thermodynamic equilibrium for propene production. Over 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta, stable conversion was observed for 63 h with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was discussed, affecting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based PDH catalysts. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and selectivity. Dealumination to Si-Beta creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in conversion and selectivity. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn in Si-Beta channels results in high conversion, selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve high selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains activity better than conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH rates. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 exhibits superior stability due to coke distribution. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is unaltered, with Pt and Sn believed to be monodispersed. Increasing Sn loading decreases peak height, possibly due to surface character changes. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading due to pore blocking. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR analysis show negligible effects on acidity with Sn loading, with small shifts indicating decreased acid intensity. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid sites, improving stereochemistry control for higher propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. Direct anchored Pt sites are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, modifying Pt ensembles by decreasing surface area and reducing carbon-metal bonds, improving catalyst stability by suppressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, integrating Sn species into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes high dispersion of Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate excellent PDH performance with high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities proportional to the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, indicating the aggregation degree of VOx species is critical. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, with the induction period shortened after reduction treatment. CoOx species at T-sites are reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, with 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta, respectively. Propylene selectivities of 0.5/1CoSiBeta are stable at 98%, while 3CoSiBeta starts at 92% and increases. 10CoSiBeta initially shows no propylene selectivity, indicating side reactions, but rapidly reaches 92% selectivity. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, suggesting a common active phase. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles cause cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst maintains activity over four cycles, indicating deactivation by carbon deposits, not sintering. Its TOF value of 32.9 h-1 at 550 C for PDH is superior to previous reports, with 97% propylene selectivity. The small metallic Co particles generated by CoOx reduction are the active sites, showing high product selectivity and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, minimizing carbon deposition and deactivation. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing Sn oxides to metallic state and decreasing activity. Key factors for enhanced propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include external Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared via sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization using XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, the enhanced performance of PtSn/SAPO-34 is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) with high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity. This catalyst exhibits high stability and reusability. Eliminating lattice Al atoms from the zeolite framework depresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and propylene selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites can anchor metal species, allowing for the formation of mononuclear active sites when metal loading is low.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with optimal Lewis acidity, yields 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, favoring the direct pathway over the indirect. Sn-Beta's stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours highlights its potential for PDH catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. The isolated Zn(OH)+ species formed after the first ALD cycle are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. Pore size and topology affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. On ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while on Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by the ALD process, play a crucial role in reaction pathways. Improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability are attributed to the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt cluster location on X-zeolite, either on the exterior or inside, dramatically affects catalytic performance. Exterior Pt clusters on Pt/NaX zeolite boost TOF by 1100% and propylene selectivity compared to interior Pt clusters in Pt@NaX. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors for improved selectivity, conversion, and stability. The zeolitic framework surrounding interior Pt clusters lowers the d-band center, weakening propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolite catalysts, particularly Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl-ratios > 8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc, achieved the highest and most stable propane conversions, close to thermodynamic equilibrium, for at least 63 h time-on-stream. Over zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta, propene selectivity exceeded 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios (≤ 3.4) showed similar catalytic behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites and Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts improve PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts show higher propylene formation TOF. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn improves dispersion and catalytic performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimum conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD confirms the structure, XRF verifies metal loading, and BET shows surface area reduction with Sn loading. NH3-TPD and IR indicate negligible acidity changes with Sn. The highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds and improving propylene selectivity. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving catalyst stability by suppressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, incorporating Sn into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration due to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement, maintaining catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing catalytic efficiency for propylene production. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows exceptional propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and over 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, which stabilizes at about 98% during the reaction. After reduction treatment, the induction period shortens, and metallic Co formed in situ during the reaction acts as the active site. The catalysts show similar catalytic activity and propylene selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, indicating that cobalt species transform into the same active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation primarily due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is 32.9 h-1, with propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing its superior performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a greater external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction between Sn oxides and the support, making Sn oxides easier to reduce to the metallic state, thus decreasing catalytic activity. Strong acid sites in SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while weak acid sites in ZSM-5 allow more precursor entry, transforming to highly dispersed Pt clusters during calcination. The distribution of Pt on the porous support, the acidity of the zeolite, and the interactions between Pt, Sn, and support are key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    