Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology influence the performance of various zeolite-based catalysts (particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Zeolite-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH): Preparation methods, characterization, and performance comparison of various zeolite types, with a focus on BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "For direct propane dehydrogenation to propylene, a PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter the support's acidic strength or topology. PtSn/SAPO-34 achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity, outperforming PtSn/ZSM-5. The enhanced performance is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation, achieving high initial conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Eliminating lattice Al atoms depresses side reactions, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites accommodate metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. The optimal catalyst, with 10wt% Zn, exhibits a propane conversion of around 53% and a propylene selectivity of about 93%, alongside high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with optimal Lewis acidity, delivers 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, and Sn-Beta shows stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Theoretical calculations indicate a direct dehydrogenation pathway is more feasible, with open sites being more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents. Sn-Beta acts as a support and promoter for Pt in PDH, offering potential for advanced catalyst development.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and the accessibility of reactants to active sites. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species formed after the first cycle being more effective for propane conversion. The pore structure of zeolites influences the infiltration of precursor molecules during ALD cycles, affecting ZnO distribution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt/NaX catalysts, with Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite, exhibit a 1100% higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX catalysts with internal Pt clusters. The exterior Pt clusters result in less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors. The d-band center of confined Pt clusters is modulated by the zeolite framework, affecting propane activation. The framework surrounding internal Pt clusters suppresses propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl-ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content, yielding stable propane conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 h and >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion-exchanged zinc inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in zeolites impacts catalytic behavior, while the specific surface area is retained. Platinum reduction is influenced by zinc, with a less noble species associated with zinc observed at 530 C. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta showed stable performance and negligible zinc loss over 63 h. The incorporation method of zinc had minimal effect on large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly affect zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high conversion and selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in conversion and selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts display higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulation of Pt in Si-Beta channels due to PtSn interactions leads to high dispersion, conversion, selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 exhibits superior stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity, and the novel PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst exhibits improved stereochemistry control. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are made through sequential impregnation. XRD, XRF, BET, TPD, TPR, and TPO analyses provide insights into the catalyst's structure, metallic content, surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies the acidity. Sn helps disperse Pt, improving catalytic performance. The optimum Sn loading (1 wt %) boosts performance, but higher loads diminish the reaction rate. Sn content significantly affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 structure is unaltered. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading due to pore blocking. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR analysis show negligible effects on acidity with Sn (0.8-1.2 wt %). The highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration (1.2 wt %) blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, modifying Pt ensembles and improving stereochemistry control and stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts, involving dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, facilitates the incorporation of Sn into the Si-beta framework's tetrahedral states. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts demonstrate superior PDH performance, achieving high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta with remarkable stability in propane dehydrogenation. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining high propane conversion and propene selectivity over extended periods.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in SiBeta zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ, acts as active sites. The 0.5 wt% CoSiBeta catalyst excels in propylene productivity, with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH ensure its long-term utility. Small metallic Co particles in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles cause cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment. Propylene selectivity increases with Co loading, stabilizing at 98% for 0.5/1CoSiBeta. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, indicating transformation into the same active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst's catalytic activity and selectivity remain high after regeneration, indicating deactivation by carbon deposits, not sintering. The catalyst's TOF value is the highest reported for PDH at 550 C, with 97% propylene selectivity, showcasing its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction between Sn oxides and the support, making them easier to reduce and decreasing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while ZSM-5's weak acid sites allow more precursor entry, forming highly dispersed Pt clusters. Key factors for improved PDH performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Its performance surpassed PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, supporting small ZnO nanoclusters, serves as an efficient catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. By removing lattice Al atoms, side reactions are minimized, enhancing catalytic activity and propylene selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites, post-dealumination, anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This catalyst achieves high initial propane conversion (53%) and superior propylene selectivity (93%), with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH). It activates propane's C-H bond at high temperatures, showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions. Direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect pathways, with open sites being more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species on both zeolites after the first cycle being more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics. Catalyst stability is influenced by factors such as coke formation, sintering, and evaporation of ZnO species.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, which has internal Pt clusters, by enhancing TOF and propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion within zeolite cages are key factors for improved propylene selectivity and conversion. The d-band center of confined Pt clusters is modulated by the zeolitic framework, reducing propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to decreased selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal conversion and selectivity were observed on Beta and mordenite zeolites with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content, achieving stable conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for at least 63 hours and >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites coexists, impacting the total zinc content. Catalyst stability is maintained with negligible zinc loss, and hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. Different zinc incorporation methods do not significantly alter the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, enhancing propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated PtSn in Si-Beta channels results in high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts achieve near 100% propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% initial activity, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites boost PDH rates. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability over PtSnNa/ZSM-5. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF than impregnated Pt/NaX. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes catalyst deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn content up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn improves catalyst stability by decreasing coke deposition. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn loading affects surface character and decreases surface area, impacting catalyst geometry. Sn has a negligible effect on acidity, but it reduces Bronsted acid sites, improving stereochemistry control and propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentrations, both L and B acidity are higher, but Pt active sites are blocked, reducing conversion. Sn improves Pt reduction properties, and higher Sn loads form Sn0 species. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support, decreasing coke deposition and improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination and metal impregnation, integrating Sn into the Si-beta framework's tetrahedral states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanoclusters' dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts exhibit high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn's confinement effect in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites, which are formed by VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate are determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species, increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Pt@Sn-Beta, formed by anchoring platinum precursors with framework-Sn in Beta zeolite, exhibits high stability in PDH. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during reactions, acts as active sites. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but also lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with a shortened induction period after reduction treatment. Despite initial states, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, indicating transformation into the same active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates ideal reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak sites allow deeper Pt dispersion, reducing Sn oxides to metallic state and decreasing activity. Propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability are enhanced by external Pt distribution and zeolite acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Prepared by sequential impregnation, its performance was attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, unaffected by metal doping. This was compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, highlighting SAPO-34's advantages in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving initial propane conversion of 53% and propylene selectivity of 93%. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. The catalyst exhibits high stability and reusability, making it a promising choice for PDH applications.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with optimal Lewis acidity, yields 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Theoretical studies confirm direct dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites, with open sites being more reactive. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain activity without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites boosts propane conversion and propylene selectivity in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective than larger ZnO clusters. Pore size and topology affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. ZnO ALD modifies acid sites, impacting reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The dispersion and form of ZnO species, acid site type, and pore structure are key factors for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, where Pt is confined inside, by enhancing TOF and propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects within zeolite cages are key factors. The d-band center of confined Pt clusters is lowered, reducing propane activation. The zeolitic framework around enclosed Pt clusters suppresses propylene desorption, decreasing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn-containing Beta and mordenite zeolites with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed highest and stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion over 63 h, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading via impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. Ion-exchanged zeolites retain specific surface area, inhibit zinc loss, and shift platinum reduction peak to higher temperatures. Hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C indicates less noble species associated with zinc. Hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance for 63 h with negligible zinc loss. Zinc incorporation methods do not significantly affect large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and selectivity. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, enhancing metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to PtSn interactions lead to high conversion, selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn improves dispersion and catalytic performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer to the support. Sn content up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher levels diminish reaction rates. Sn improves catalyst stability by reducing coke deposition. SAPO-34 support preparation involves specific molar ratios of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn loading affects surface character and decreases surface area, impacting geometry. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds and allowing easier intermediate movement to the support. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, while the initial valence state of V has no significant effect on performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic scope. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta with exceptional PDH stability. Zeolite pore constraints and Sn's electronic effect prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, sustaining 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in SiBeta zeolite's T-sites form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing efficiency. The 0.5 wt% CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates state-of-the-art propylene productivity with high conversion and selectivity. CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, with maximal conversions of 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta, respectively. Propylene selectivities are high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, reaching about 98%. The initial selectivity of 10CoSiBeta is null, indicating initial side reactions, but rapidly increases to 92% as PDH becomes predominant. All catalysts show similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, suggesting a common active phase. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high reusability and TOF values, with propylene selectivity above 97%. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows more precursor entry, leading to reduced Sn oxides and decreased catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was used for direct propane dehydrogenation to propylene, prepared by sequential impregnation. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. The catalyst achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity, outperforming PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. The enhanced performance is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters supported on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites under low loading, which contributes to the catalyst's high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Propane's C-H bond activation at high temperatures leads to good activity. Propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh conditions. The direct pathway for dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible, and open sites are more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and the accessibility of reactants to active sites. For ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles. The type and strength of acid sites on parent and ALD ZnO-modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with the balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions impacting catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, shows a 1100% TOF enhancement and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside. The lower d-band center of interior Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, weakens propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition. The exterior location of Pt clusters in Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke formation and higher stability after 18 hours of reaction, highlighting the importance of the zeolitic framework and diffusion effect on catalyst activity.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn catalysts on Beta and mordenite zeolites with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed highest stable conversion rates, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion over 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading via impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. Zn species with varying charges coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites, impacting platinum reduction and hydrogen consumption. Zinc introduction by ion exchange in Na-ZSM-5 inhibits zinc loss. PtZn/Na-Beta catalysts exhibit high conversions and selectivity for 63 hours, with low hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance for 63 hours with minimal zinc loss. Zinc incorporation methods have minimal effect on large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, catalyst preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology significantly impact performance. PtZn-Beta catalysts, prepared by Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation, exhibit higher Pt dispersion and lower Zn loss, achieving propane conversion of 30% and propylene selectivity of 90%. Dealumination of Beta zeolites to Si-Beta enhances PDH performance through abundant silanol nests that improve metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta with higher propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts show improved propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulation of Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions leads to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % enhances performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is preserved, and metals are believed to be monodispersed. Increasing Sn loading decreases peak height, possibly due to surface character changes. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading, affecting catalyst geometry. Sn has a negligible effect on acidity, with small shifts toward lower temperatures indicating decreased acid intensity. The highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stereochemistry control and propylene selectivity. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, leading to the incorporation of Sn species into the Si-beta framework's tetrahedral states. This promotes high dispersion of Pt species as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts demonstrate excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent catalytic activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which are a result of VOx species interacting with SiBeta. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rates increase with higher V loading, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and over 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but propylene selectivity is initially null for 10CoSiBeta, indicating side reactions. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, suggesting transformation into the same active phases. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates considerable catalytic activity with high propylene selectivity, and its performance is stable over four cycles, indicating deactivation is mainly due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for 0.5CoSiBeta is the highest at 32.9 h-1 for PDH at 550 C, with propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing its superiority.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a greater external Pt presence, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing catalytic activity. Sn oxide dispersion and reduction to the metallic state, influenced by zeolite acidity, also impact hydrocarbon dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was developed for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Prepared by sequential impregnation, its performance was compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. The enhanced selectivity is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH) with high initial conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Eliminating lattice Al atoms reduces strong acid sites, suppressing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites anchor metal species, enabling mononuclear active sites when loading is low. This catalyst exhibits high stability and reusability, making it optimal for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, exhibits high selectivity, good activity, and excellent stability in propane dehydrogenation (PDH). The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours, suggesting potential for advanced PDH catalysts. Theoretical calculations indicate that dehydrogenation prefers the direct pathway and that open sites are more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, more effective for propylene production, are formed after the first ALD cycle. The pore size and topology affect precursor infiltration and active species distribution. ZnO incorporation into Y zeolite by ALD eliminates Brønsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites, while on ZSM-5, Brønsted sites are partially removed. The dispersion and form of ZnO, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure are key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, notably BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Pt/NaX catalysts, with Pt clusters on the exterior of X-zeolite, exhibit a 11-fold increase in TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. Pt/NaX also shows less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors. Pt clusters confined within the zeolite have a lower d-band center, which is less effective for propane activation. The zeolitic framework around enclosed Pt clusters hinders propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal results were achieved with zeolites Beta and mordenite, featuring nSi/nAl ratios above 8.7 and zinc contents around 2.5 wt.%. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst demonstrated stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene for over 63 hours, with propene selectivity exceeding 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites contributes to the total zinc content. The specific surface area of the parent zeolite is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates the influence of zinc on platinum species. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C suggests the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low, and the 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst maintains stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc does not significantly impact the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Sn loading up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with specific molar ratios, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Sn changes interfacial character and reduces carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement. Sn helps decrease coke deposition by suppressing formation, improving stability. At higher Sn concentrations, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. The presence of Sn improves Pt reduction properties, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. Direct anchored Pt sites are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation. This leads to Sn species incorporation into the Si-beta framework's tetrahedral coordination states and promotes high dispersion of Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity (>99%) at 550-600°C. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx/SiBeta catalysts exhibit varying activities depending on V loading, with a linear relationship between generated acidic sites and catalytic activity. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V does not impact performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming stable Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in the T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency (Quote 1). Metallic Co, formed in situ during reactions, acts as active sites (Quote 3). CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards (Quote 4). Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but only small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition (Quote 9). The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment (Quote 10). Propylene selectivity varies with Co loading, initially null for 10CoSiBeta due to side reactions, but rapidly increases to high values, indicating PDH predominance (Quotes 17, 18). After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar catalytic activity and propylene selectivity, suggesting transformation into the same active phases (Quote 22). The CoSiBeta catalysts show ideal reusability, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits, not cobalt sintering (Quote 30). The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst has the highest TOF value and propylene selectivity, demonstrating superior performance (Quotes 31, 32).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to more external Pt, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak sites allow deeper Pt dispersion, reducing activity. Sn oxide dispersion and reduction to the metallic state, influenced by zeolite acidity, also affect catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was developed for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Prepared by sequential impregnation, its performance was attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, unaffected by metal doping. Compared to PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions, the PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst showed superior results, highlighting the importance of zeolite topology and composition in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite supports small ZnO nanoclusters, forming a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene with high performance. Dealumination reduces side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and propylene selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, enabling mononuclear active sites when loading is low. The optimal 10wt% Zn-loaded catalyst achieves 53% initial propane conversion and 93% propylene selectivity, with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, exhibits high selectivity, good activity, and excellent stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Theoretical calculations indicate that the direct pathway is more feasible for dehydrogenation, and open sites are more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and the accessibility of reactants to active sites. For ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles. The type and strength of acid sites on the parent and ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Catalyst stability is influenced by factors such as coke formation, sintering, and evaporation of ZnO species.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside, by enhancing TOF and propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The d-band center of Pt clusters is modulated by the zeolitic framework, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Exterior Pt clusters have a higher d-band center, improving propane activation and propylene desorption, thus enhancing selectivity and stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and zinc contents ~2.5 wt.% exhibit the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr ~29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) for at least 63 h time-on-stream (Quotes 2, 21, 23, 32, 42, 52, 62, 72, 82, 92). Propene selectivity over these zeolites exceeds 90% (Quotes 3, 24, 33, 43, 53, 63, 73, 83, 93). Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity (Quote 4). The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites influences catalytic behavior (Quotes 6, 7). The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange (Quote 10). The shift in the platinum reduction peak indicates the effect of zinc on platinum species (Quote 11). The introduction of zinc by ion exchange inhibits zinc loss (Quote 14). The PtZn-containing zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance with negligible zinc loss (Quote 20).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 molar ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads are detrimental. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and PtSn/SAPO-34 is made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing interfacial character and allowing intermediates to move to the support. Optimal conditions for propane dehydrogenation are 585 C, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 molar ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % boosts performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area reduction with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect of Sn on acidity, with small shifts toward lower temperatures. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid site intensity, improving stereochemistry control. At high Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are high, but Pt active sites are blocked. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, possible with good metal-support interaction. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing surface area and carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation. This process incorporates Sn species into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework, promoting high dispersion of Pt as ultra-small nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles at 550 C, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement, which inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities depending on V loading. Catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which are formed by the interaction between VOx species and SiBeta. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, achieving 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, show state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. The confinement of CoOx species in T-sites (silanols) of dealuminated Beta zeolite facilitates the formation of ultrasmall Co particles, enhancing catalytic efficiency. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment. The CoOx species are reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. After 0.5 h on stream, all tested catalysts show similar activity and selectivity, indicating the transformation of cobalt species into active phases. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to side reactions. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates ideal reusability over four cycles, with deactivation primarily due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%. The small metallic Co particles generated by the reduction of confined CoOx are the active sites, showing great catalytic activity and high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on external surfaces, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction with Sn oxides, making them easier to reduce and decreasing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak sites allow more precursor entry, forming highly dispersed Pt clusters. Propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability are enhanced by Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidity or topology. Its performance surpassed PtSn/ZSM-5, attributed to larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, supporting ZnO nanoclusters, serves as an efficient PDH catalyst, achieving high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in dealuminated β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low. The optimal 10wt% Zn-loaded catalyst exhibits a propane conversion of 53% and 93% propylene selectivity, with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in PDH, achieving high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, offers optimal PDH performance, converting 40% propane to 92% propylene. Theoretical calculations confirm dehydrogenation on Lewis acid sites and the direct pathway's feasibility. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours, showcasing potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. The dispersed ZnO species, particularly isolated Zn(OH)+, are more effective for propane conversion. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactants' accessibility. Key factors for improved performance include the dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites. Catalyst stability is influenced by coke formation, sintering, and evaporation of ZnO species.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, shows a 1100% increase in TOF and improved propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside the zeolite. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to decreased selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Optimal conversion and selectivity were achieved with Beta and mordenite zeolites, featuring nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content. The 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst exhibited stable conversion near thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. Ion-exchanged zinc inhibits loss during experiments. The presence of various zinc species in zeolites impacts catalytic behavior. Catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios showed consistent behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with abundant silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are active for PDH. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity, and the novel PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst offers better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) negatively impacts performance. Sn reduces coke deposition, improving catalyst stability. The preparation of SAPO-34 involves a specific molar ratio of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation. XRD, XRF, BET, TPD, TPR, and TPO analyses provide insights into the catalyst's structure, metallic content, surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies the acidity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes catalyst deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing catalytic performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer. Optimal operating conditions are 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn content significantly impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD patterns show the original SAPO-34 structure is unaltered. Peaks for Pt and Sn are not observed due to low concentration, but they are initially monodispersed. Peak height decreases with increasing Sn loading, possibly due to surface character changes. XRF confirms successful metal loading, and BET results indicate metallic incorporation modifies the catalyst's geometry. Surface area decreases with increasing Sn loading, from 419 to 396 m2/g, due to pore blocking. Sn has a significant impact on catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR analysis reveal negligible effects of Sn (0.8-1.2 wt %) on acidity. The highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces peak intensities, decreasing Bronsted acid site intensity, making the catalyst less active for propane cracking and improving stereochemistry control toward higher propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration (1.2 wt %), both L and B acidity are higher, but they block Pt active sites, resulting in low conversion. H2-TPR shows Sn improves Pt reduction properties, while higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. The presence of Sn facilitates the transfer of carbon deposits from metal sites to the support, allowing intermediates to move easily to the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles by decreasing surface area and reducing carbon-metal bonds, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts show high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites generated from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, demonstrating the critical role of VOx aggregation in performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta. This catalyst exhibits high stability in PDH, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity, due to zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing catalytic efficiency (Quote #1). The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards (Quote #4). Co's earth abundance and reported catalytic activity for PDH make it a promising long-term utility candidate (Quote #5). Co(II) activates CH bonds in propane, and single-site Co2+ on silica supports propylene selectivity (Quotes #36-#38). The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates high catalytic activity and selectivity, with the induction period shortened after reduction treatment. The Co species are mainly CoOx at the T-sites, and confined CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst's catalytic activity and selectivity are comparable to those of other catalysts after 0.5 h on stream, indicating similar active phases regardless of initial states. The Co2p XPS spectra confirm the presence of metallic Co after reductionoxidation treatment. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows ideal reusability and high TOF values for PDH, with propylene selectivity above 97%. The small metallic Co particles generated by the reduction of confined CoOx are the active sites, showing great catalytic activity and high product selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to greater Pt availability on the external surface, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to easier reduction of Sn oxides, decreasing catalytic activity. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak sites allow deeper Pt dispersion, affecting activity. Propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability are enhanced by Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    