Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'How do the preparation methods, composition, and zeolite topology influence the performance of various zeolite-based catalysts (particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites) in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions, and what are the key factors contributing to improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability?', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'Zeolite-based catalysts for propane dehydrogenation (PDH): Preparation methods, characterization, and performance comparison of various zeolite types, with a focus on BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Its performance was compared with PtSn/ZSM-5. The catalyst's enhanced performance is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, unaffected by metal doping.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Eliminating lattice Al atoms reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. Vacant T-atom sites, post-dealumination, accommodate metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low, contributing to the catalyst's high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. Theoretical calculations confirm propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh PDH conditions. Direct dehydrogenation is kinetically more feasible than indirect pathways, with open sites being more reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective than larger ZnO clusters. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by the preparation method, impact reaction pathways. Pore size and topology affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, crucial for catalytic activity and stability. Catalyst stability is affected by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The balance between dehydrogenation and subsequent reactions requiring Brønsted acid sites is key to improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, with interior clusters, showing 1100% higher TOF and improved propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, reducing propane activation and propylene selectivity, and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content showed the highest and most stable propane conversion rates, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr 29%, T = 555 C, p = 0.1 MPa) over 63 h. Propene selectivity exceeded 90% on zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was noted, affecting the specific surface area and platinum reduction peak. The introduction of zinc by ion exchange into zeolite Na-ZSM-5 inhibited zinc loss. The PtZn-containing zeolite Na-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss over 63 h. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates were relatively low. Different zinc incorporation methods did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms contribute to high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% activity, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 exhibits superior stability. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn incorporation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal loading, and BET measures surface area. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effects of Sn on acidity, with highest ammonia uptake at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation, and Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stability by suppressing coke formation.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanocluster dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit high propene selectivity and formation rates. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities that correlate linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, indicating the aggregation degree of VOx species influences performance. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring high stability and 99% propene selectivity in PDH, with 90% propane conversion maintained over 250 hours.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit superior propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and selectivity. CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta zeolite transform into ultrasmall Co particles under reaction conditions, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with the induction period shortened after reduction treatment. CoOx at T-sites is reducible to metallic Co during the reaction, confirming its role as an active site. Despite initial states, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, indicating the transformation of cobalt species into the same active phases. The small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to side reactions. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on its external surface, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, unlike the weak acid sites of ZSM-5, which lead to more Pt clusters entering the tunnels. Dispersed Sn oxides in PtSnNa/ZSM-5 are more easily reduced to the metallic state, reducing catalytic activity. Key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion, and stability include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "PtSn/SAPO-34, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity in PDH, outperforming PtSn/ZSM-5. Its enhanced performance is attributed to larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters supported on dealuminated β zeolite serve as an efficient PDH catalyst, achieving high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity, with excellent stability and reusability. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low, as demonstrated by the optimal 10wt% Zn-loaded catalyst.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, delivers 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Theoretical calculations reveal that dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn, with open sites being more reactive than closed ones. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours, offering potential for advanced PDH catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances PDH catalytic activity, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ALD, impact reaction pathways. On Y zeolite, ALD eliminates Brønsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites, while on ZSM-5, Brønsted sites are partially removed. Pore size and topology affect ZnO distribution and reactant accessibility. Key factors for improved performance include ZnO dispersion, acid site type, and zeolite pore structure, affecting propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, boosts TOF by 1100% and propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are internal. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and high stability. Key factors for improved performance include the electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, which modulates the d-band center, affecting propane activation. The framework around internal Pt clusters hinders propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content achieved the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, close to thermodynamic equilibrium, and propene selectivity >90% for 63 hours. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects catalytic behavior, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites, impacting the specific surface area and platinum reduction peak. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C indicates the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. The PtZn catalyst 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss for 63 hours, demonstrating the importance of zeolite topology, preparation methods, and composition in PDH catalyst performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation enhances Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, improving propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, enhancing propylene selectivity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn in Si-Beta channels leads to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability due to coke distribution. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn improves dispersion and catalytic performance. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, facilitating carbon deposit transfer to the support, and decreases coke formation, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 support preparation mixes Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading. BET indicates surface area decreases with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible acidity changes with Sn. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn. Increased Sn loading shifts reduction peaks, forming Sn0 species. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, modifying Pt ensembles and improving propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "In PDH, the preparation method, composition, and zeolite topology of Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts significantly impact performance. An enhanced post-synthesis strategy, involving H-beta dealumination and metal impregnation, facilitates Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework's tetrahedral states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanocluster dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration over multiple cycles at 550°C, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework inhibiting coke and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities depending on V loading. The activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Higher V loading increases propylene selectivity and deactivation rates, influenced by the aggregation degree of VOx species. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx species confined in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite form ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, with high propane conversion and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with the induction period shortened after reduction treatment. CoOx species at T-sites are primarily present in the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst. Catalysts with and without prereduction treatments exhibit similar performance, indicating that CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during the reaction. Propylene selectivity increases with Co loading, stabilizing at high levels for 0.5/1CoSiBeta. The 10CoSiBeta catalyst initially shows null propylene selectivity, indicating side reactions, but rapidly increases to high selectivity, suggesting PDH predominance. After 0.5 h on stream, all tested catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, indicating transformation into the same active phases. The Co2p XPS spectra confirm the presence of metallic Co after reduction. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for the 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst is the highest reported, with high propylene selectivity, demonstrating its superiority. Small metallic Co particles, generated by CoOx reduction, are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to greater Pt availability on the external surface, reducing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor penetration, unlike ZSM-5's weak sites, which allow deeper Pt dispersion, leading to reduced Sn oxide interaction and catalytic activity. Key performance factors include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation for propane dehydrogenation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Characterization using various methods confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. The catalyst's enhanced performance over PtSn/ZSM-5 is attributed to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing propylene selectivity and stability. The optimal catalyst, with 10wt% Zn, achieves initial propane conversion of 53% and propylene selectivity of 93%, showcasing high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in catalytic biomass conversion and propane dehydrogenation (PDH), showing high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations indicate propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation under harsh PDH conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are kinetically favored over indirect pathways, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO on ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances PDH catalytic activity and propylene selectivity by creating highly dispersed ZnO species. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics. The type and strength of acid sites, pore structure, and dispersion of ZnO species are key factors for improved performance. ALD allows precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The topology, such as pore size and structure, affects precursor accessibility and active species distribution.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. A study comparing Pt clusters on the exterior (Pt/NaX) and interior (Pt@NaX) of X-zeolite revealed that exterior Pt clusters enhanced TOF by 1100% and improved propylene selectivity compared to interior clusters. Pt/NaX also showed less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors for improved selectivity, conversion, and stability. Enclosed Pt clusters have a lower d-band center, which is less effective for propane activation and propylene desorption, leading to reduced selectivity and increased coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content showed the highest and most stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr ~29%) at 555°C and 0.1 MPa for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites, including ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear complexes, was discussed. The specific surface area was retained when zinc was introduced by ion exchange. The shift in the platinum reduction peak to higher temperatures indicated the effect of zinc presence. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C on the 0.5Pt4.4Zn/Na-ZSM-5 sample suggested a less noble species associated with zinc. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates were relatively low, and the 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss for 63 hours. The incorporation of zinc did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and stabilization. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in conversion and selectivity. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving selectivity without altering Lewis acidity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high dispersion, conversion, selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve high selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt@MCM-22 retains 90% activity after cycles, unlike conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites, increasing strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH rates. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Optimal conditions include 585 C temperature, 5.6 h-1 WHSV, 0.25 H2/C3H8 ratio, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn decreases coke deposition, improving stability. The SAPO-34 support is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn disperses Pt, enhancing performance. Sn changes interfacial character and reduces carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement to the support. Sn0 species form at higher Sn loads, affecting reduction temperatures. Direct Pt-SAPO-34 sites are inactive, but Pt-SnOx is active. Sn improves stereochemistry control over propane dehydrogenation, favoring propylene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, enabling Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanocluster dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts display high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration cycles at 550 C, attributed to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework, inhibiting coke and Pt cluster sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activity proportional to the amount of acidic sites formed from VOx-SiBeta interaction. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, influenced by VOx aggregation. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores enhance stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in SiBeta zeolite's T-sites (silanols) forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during reactions, acts as active sites. CoSiBeta catalysts, especially with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Co's earth abundance and catalytic activity for PDH make it a viable long-term option. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with the induction period shortened after reduction treatment. CoOx species at the T-sites of 0.5CoSiBeta are primarily present. Catalysts with and without prereduction treatments have similar performance, indicating that CoOx can be reduced to metallic Co during reactions. Propylene selectivity increases with Co loading, stabilizing at about 98% for 0.5/1CoSiBeta. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for 0.5CoSiBeta is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%. Small metallic Co particles, generated by CoOx reduction, are the active sites, showing high catalytic activity and selectivity, as well as reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The strong acid sites of SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while the weaker acidity of ZSM-5 allows more precursor entry, leading to dispersed Pt clusters. Dispersed Sn oxides on ZSM-5 are more easily reduced to the metallic state, decreasing catalytic activity. Key factors for improved performance include Pt distribution, zeolite acidity, and interactions between Pt, Sn, and support.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "For PDH, PtSn/SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation, achieving 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity. Its performance, compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, was enhanced due to larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, supporting small ZnO nanoclusters, serves as a high-performance catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene. Dealumination suppresses side reactions by eliminating strong acid sites, enhancing propylene selectivity and catalytic activity. Vacant T-atom sites in the zeolite accommodate metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when the loading is low. This catalyst exhibits high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and excellent stability, making it a promising option for PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, shows high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal that PDH occurs on Lewis acid sites from single-site Sn. Na-Sn-Beta-30, with the highest Lewis acid and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites are exceptionally stable under harsh conditions for 72 hours. Direct dehydrogenation pathways on open sites are more feasible and reactive, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites on the parent and ALD ZnO modified zeolites play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species on both zeolites improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Catalyst stability is influenced by factors such as coke formation, sintering, and evaporation of ZnO species.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on zeolites significantly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, where clusters are inside, by enhancing TOF by 1100% and improving propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are critical. The d-band center of confined Pt clusters is lowered, hindering propane activation. The framework surrounding enclosed Pt clusters suppresses propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content showed the highest and most stable propane conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane dehydrogenation to propene (XPr ~29%) at 555°C and 0.1 MPa for 63 h. Propene selectivity exceeded 90%. Zinc incorporation through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites was noted, with ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear species coexisting. Zeolite Na-ZSM-5 with ion-exchanged zinc showed inhibited zinc loss. The PtZn-containing zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss for 63 h. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates were relatively low. Zinc incorporation methods did not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are active PDH centers. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, aiding dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal to support. Increased Sn content beyond 1 wt % negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing stability. SAPO-34 is prepared with a specific molar ratio, and bimetallic catalysts are made by sequential impregnation. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Pt aggregation causes deactivation, but Sn improves dispersion and catalytic performance. Sn loading up to 1 wt % boosts performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content affects stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 structure. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area decrease with Sn loading. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect on acidity with Sn loading. Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid sites, improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration, both L and B acidity are higher but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, reducing carbon-metal bonds, and improves catalyst stability by decreasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for PDH catalysts involves dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into Si-beta's tetrahedral coordination states. This promotes ultra-small Pt nanocluster dispersion due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts exhibit high propene formation rates and selectivity, with stable dehydrogenation and regeneration due to PtSn interactions and Sn confinement, preventing coke and sintering.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying activities with different V loadings. Catalytic activity correlates linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which are created by VOx species interacting with SiBeta. VOx aggregation degree determines propylene selectivity and deactivation rate, both increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta, which exhibits high stability in PDH by inhibiting coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, maintaining 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the confinement of CoOx species in T-sites of dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite leads to ultrasmall Co particles, enhancing catalytic efficiency for PDH to propylene. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and selectivity. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion, but excessive Co leads to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with an induction period shortened by reduction treatment. Metallic Co, formed in situ from CoOx, is the active site. Propylene selectivity initially null for 10CoSiBeta indicates side reactions, but it rapidly increases to 92%, suggesting PDH predominance. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity, indicating transformation into the same active phases. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is the highest reported, with propylene selectivity above 97%.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, while ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing catalytic activity. Sn oxide reduction to the metallic state is easier in ZSM-5, further decreasing activity. The external Pt distribution in SUZ-4 enhances propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Characterization confirmed that metal doping did not alter SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology. Performance was compared with PtSn/ZSM-5, highlighting SAPO-34's advantages due to its larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, by removing lattice Al atoms, reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and propylene selectivity in PDH. Small ZnO nanoclusters supported on this zeolite form a novel catalyst with high initial propane conversion, superior propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. Vacant T-atom sites, post-dealumination, anchor metal species, allowing low loading amounts to create mononuclear active sites, contributing to the catalyst's high performance.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations reveal dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites, with the Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, having the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, delivering 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours, suggesting a direct dehydrogenation pathway is kinetically favorable over indirect routes, with open sites being more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO on ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect precursor accessibility and ZnO distribution. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ALD, play a crucial role in reaction pathways. Catalyst stability is affected by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. The dispersion and form of ZnO species, the type and strength of acid sites, and the pore structure of the zeolites are key factors for improved performance.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly impacts catalyst performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, outperforms Pt@NaX, with interior clusters, showing a 1100% increase in TOF and enhanced propylene selectivity. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and high stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are critical for improved performance. The lower d-band center of Pt clusters in Pt@NaX weakens propane activation and propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation, PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc showed the highest and most stable conversion levels, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for propane to propene conversion (XPr 29%, T = 555°C, p = 0.1 MPa) for 63 h. Propene selectivity exceeded 90%. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange influenced activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. Ion exchange inhibited zinc loss. The PtZn catalyst maintained stable performance with negligible zinc loss. Large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios (≤3.4) showed similar catalytic behavior regardless of zinc incorporation method.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH reactions. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination to Si-Beta zeolites creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts show superior propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is more favorable. Encapsulated Pt species in Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases strong Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites are PDH active centers. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 exhibits superior stability over PtSnNa/ZSM-5. PtSn/SAPO-34 shows higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support. The support stabilizes the catalyst's activity, and the novel PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst offers better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing Pt dispersion and facilitating the transfer of carbon deposits from metal sites to the support. However, increasing Sn content beyond 1 wt % negatively impacts performance. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing its formation, improving catalyst stability. The preparation of SAPO-34 involves mixing specific molar ratios of Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O. Bimetallic PtSn/SAPO-34 catalysts are prepared by sequential impregnation with SnCl2·2H2O and H2PtCl6 solutions. XRD patterns confirm the catalyst structure, while XRF measurements verify metallic content. BET surface area measurements and TPD, TPR, and TPO analyses provide insights into surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies the acidity of the catalysts. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes catalyst deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt during preparation, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character between metal and support, and facilitates carbon deposit transfer. Optimal operating conditions are 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes the reaction rate. Sn content significantly impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD patterns show the original SAPO-34 support structure is unaltered. Peaks for Pt and Sn are not observed due to low concentration, but they are initially monodispersed. Peak height decreases with increasing Sn loading, possibly due to surface character changes. XRF confirms successful metal loading, and BET results indicate metallic incorporation modifies the geometric effect of the catalyst. Surface area decreases with increasing Sn loading, from 419 to 396 m2/g, due to pore blocking. Sn significantly impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD and IR analysis reveal negligible effects of Sn (0.8-1.2 wt %) on catalyst acidity. Small shifts in peaks toward lower temperatures indicate a slight decrease in acid intensity. Highest ammonia uptake is observed at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. A small decrease in peak intensities after increasing Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid site intensity, making the catalyst less active for propane cracking and improving stereochemistry control toward higher propylene selectivity. At higher Sn concentration (1.2 wt %), both L and B acidity are higher, but they block Pt active sites, resulting in low conversion. H2-TPR results show Sn improves Pt reduction properties, while higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species formation. Reduction peaks at higher temperatures indicate good Pt-support interaction in the presence of Sn. Peak height and width increase with increasing Sn loading, possibly due to joint reduction and valuable Pt-Sn interaction. Increased Sn loading shifts higher temperature peaks toward lower reduction temperatures, indicating Sn0 species formation. Direct anchored Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive for dehydrogenation, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support, possible when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles by decreasing surface area and reducing carbon-metal bonds, allowing intermediates to move easily to the support. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing its formation, improving catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, integrating Sn species into tetrahedral coordination states within the Si-beta framework. This promotes high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters due to strong Pt-Sn(IV) interactions. The catalysts demonstrate excellent PDH performance with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying activities with different V loadings. Catalytic activity correlates with the amount of acidic sites, while propylene selectivity and deactivation rate are determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species, increasing with higher V loading. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit superior propylene productivity, achieving high propane conversion and selectivity. The confinement of CoOx species in SiBeta zeolite's T-sites facilitates the formation of ultrasmall Co particles, which are highly efficient for PDH. These CoOx species are easily reducible to metallic Co in situ, acting as active sites. Increasing Co loading enhances initial propane conversion, with maximal conversions of 53, 59, 80, and 81% for 0.5/1/3/10CoSiBeta catalysts, respectively. Propylene selectivity is high and stable for 0.5/1CoSiBeta, reaching about 98%. Initially, 10CoSiBeta exhibits null propylene selectivity, indicating side reactions, but this rapidly increases to 92% as PDH becomes predominant. After 0.5 h on stream, all catalysts show similar activity and selectivity, suggesting a common active phase. Small metallic Co particles confined in silanols are the active sites, while bulk Co3O4 and large Co0 particles contribute to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. Its TOF value for PDH at 550 C is 32.9 h-1, with propylene selectivity above 97%, outperforming other Co catalysts and comparable to industrial standards.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate zeolites, is influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a greater external Pt quantity, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. The weaker acidity of ZSM-5 leads to less interaction with Sn oxides, making them easier to reduce and decreasing catalytic activity. Strong acid sites in SUZ-4 prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, while weak acid sites in ZSM-5 allow more precursor entry, forming highly dispersed Pt clusters. The distribution of Pt on the support, zeolite acidity, and Pt-Sn-support interactions are key factors for improved propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "A PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst, prepared by sequential impregnation, achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity in propane dehydrogenation. Its performance, compared to PtSn/ZSM-5, was enhanced due to larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity, without affecting SAPO-34's acidic strength or topology.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "ZnO nanoclusters supported on dealuminated β zeolite serve as a novel catalyst for propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high initial propane conversion and superior propylene selectivity. Dealumination, by removing lattice Al atoms, reduces side reactions and enhances catalytic activity and selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when the loading is low. This preparation method yields a catalyst with high stability and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "In PDH, Sn-Beta zeolites, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, exhibit high selectivity, activity, and stability. Theoretical calculations indicate propane dehydrogenation occurs on Lewis acid sites, and the Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid content and lowest B/L ratio, achieves 40% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity. Sn-Beta zeolites maintain stability without deactivation for 72 hours under harsh conditions, suggesting the direct pathway is more feasible for dehydrogenation, with open sites being more reactive.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites, like BEA topologic and silicoaluminophosphate, affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. Precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during ALD cycles, impacting the dispersion and form of ZnO species. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ALD, play a crucial role in reaction pathways, affecting propylene selectivity, conversion rates, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the location of Pt clusters on X-zeolite significantly affects catalytic performance. Pt/NaX, with exterior Pt clusters, enhances TOF by 1100% and improves propylene selectivity compared to Pt@NaX, where Pt clusters are inside. Pt/NaX also exhibits less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, influenced by the zeolitic framework, and diffusion effect are key factors. The d-band center of confined Pt clusters is modulated to a lower value, hindering propane activation. The framework surrounding enclosed Pt clusters suppresses propylene desorption, reducing selectivity and increasing coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn catalysts on Beta and mordenite zeolites with nSi/nAl ratios >8.7 and 2.5 wt.% zinc content achieved stable propane conversion close to thermodynamic equilibrium for 63 hours, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects catalytic behavior, with ion exchange inhibiting zinc loss. The presence of various zinc species in ion-exchanged zeolites, including ZnO and multinuclear species, influences activity. The specific surface area is retained when zinc is introduced by ion exchange. The shift in platinum reduction peak indicates platinum's interaction with zinc. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C suggests the presence of less noble zinc-associated species. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low, and the 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta catalyst maintains stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The incorporation method of zinc does not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. Catalysts prepared via Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation exhibit higher Pt dispersion and lower Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, nearing thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination of Beta zeolites to Si-Beta creates silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta catalysts outperform Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts show superior propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta catalysts weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH mechanism on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated Pt species within Si-Beta channels due to strong PtSn interactions lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and excellent stability. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance and inert Bronsted acid sites in side pores.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is influenced by interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support stabilizing activity. Pt aggregation during propane dehydrogenation causes deactivation, but Sn helps disperse Pt, improving performance. Sn modifies surface Pt ensembles, changing the interfacial character and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. Optimum conditions are 585 C, WHSV 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio 0.25, and 14-25% conversion. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but higher loads diminish reaction rates. Sn content impacts catalyst stability and dehydrogenation activity. The original SAPO-34 support structure is unaltered by Pt and Sn incorporation. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET shows surface area decreases with Sn loading due to pore blocking. Sn impacts catalyst geometry. NH3-TPD shows negligible effect on acidity with Sn loading, with highest ammonia uptake at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Higher Sn concentration blocks Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved Pt reduction with Sn, and higher Sn concentration forms Sn0 species. Direct Pt sites with SAPO-34 are inactive, but Pt attached to SnOx is active. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer, improving stereochemistry control and propylene selectivity. Sn decreases coke deposition, enhancing catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "An improved post-synthesis strategy for Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts in PDH reactions involves dealumination of H-beta and metal impregnation, leading to Sn incorporation into the Si-beta framework and high dispersion of Pt nanoclusters. This results in excellent catalytic performance, with high propene formation rates and selectivity. Strong PtSn interactions and Sn confinement in the Si-beta framework prevent coke formation and Pt sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration with consistent activity over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit catalytic activities correlating linearly with the amount of acidic sites, which form from VOx-SiBeta interactions. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rate increase with higher V loading, determined by VOx species aggregation. The initial valence state of V does not affect catalytic performance.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications, particularly in PDH. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors platinum precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in T-sites of SiBeta zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. CoSiBeta catalysts, particularly those with 0.5 wt% Co, exhibit state-of-the-art propylene productivity, high propane conversion, and selectivity, outperforming other Co catalysts. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst shows high propylene selectivity, with the induction period shortened after reduction treatment. Metallic Co particles, formed from CoOx during the reaction, are the active sites. The catalysts exhibit similar activity and selectivity after 0.5 h on stream, regardless of initial cobalt states. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst demonstrates reusability over four cycles, with deactivation mainly due to carbon deposits. It has a high TOF value and propylene selectivity above 97%, superior to other reported catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, PtSnNa/SUZ-4 outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher Pt quantity on external surfaces, minimizing deactivation by carbon deposition. SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor impregnation into the zeolite, unlike ZSM-5's weak acid sites, which allow more precursor entry and subsequent transformation to dispersed Pt clusters. This distribution and the zeolite's acidity are critical for propylene selectivity, conversion, and catalyst stability.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"},
{"DOC": "For direct propane dehydrogenation to propylene, a PtSn-based catalyst supported on SAPO-34 was prepared by sequential impregnation and characterized using XRF, BET, XRD, NH3-IR, NH3-TPD, H2-TPR, HR-TEM, and O2-pulse coke analysis. Metal doping on SAPO-34 did not alter its acidic strength or topology. The PtSn/SAPO-34 achieved 94% propylene selectivity and >97% total olefins selectivity, outperforming PtSn/ZSM-5 under identical conditions. The enhanced performance is attributed to SAPO-34's larger surface area, shape selectivity, and suitable acidity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.catcom.2009.07.008"},
{"DOC": "Dealuminated β zeolite, with anchored ZnO nanoclusters, serves as an efficient catalyst for propane dehydrogenation to propylene, achieving high conversion and selectivity. Dealumination reduces strong acid sites, minimizing side reactions and enhancing catalytic activity and propylene selectivity. Vacant T-atom sites in β zeolites can anchor metal species, forming mononuclear active sites when loading is low, contributing to the catalyst's high initial performance, stability, and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1002/cctc.201801708"},
{"DOC": "Sn-Beta zeolite, with single-site Sn in the BEA framework, excels in propane dehydrogenation (PDH), achieving high selectivity, activity, and stability. The Na-Sn-Beta-30 catalyst, with the highest Lewis acid sites and lowest B/L ratio, offers optimal PDH performance, converting 40% propane to 92% propylene. Sn-Beta's stability under harsh conditions for 72 hours and its ability to activate propane's C-H bond at high temperatures make it a promising PDH catalyst. Theoretical calculations confirm the direct pathway for dehydrogenation and the reactivity of open sites, depending on hydroxylation extents.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2020.12.019"},
{"DOC": "Atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO onto ZSM-5 and Y zeolites enhances catalytic activity for propane conversion in PDH reactions, improving propylene selectivity and conversion rates. Isolated Zn(OH)+ species, formed after the first ALD cycle, are more effective for propane conversion than larger ZnO clusters. The pore size and topology of zeolites affect the distribution of ZnO species and reactant accessibility. ALD allows for precise control over ZnO size and distribution, impacting catalytic activity and stability. The type and strength of acid sites, influenced by ALD, play a crucial role in reaction pathways, with isolated Zn(OH)+ species favoring propylene and aromatics production. Catalyst stability is affected by coke formation, sintering, and ZnO evaporation. For ZSM-5, precursor molecules infiltrate micropores during the first ALD cycle, while for Y zeolite, infiltration occurs during the first three cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C5CP05043J"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the performance of zeolite-based catalysts, particularly BEA and silicoaluminophosphate types, is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. A study comparing Pt/NaX (Pt clusters on the exterior) and Pt@NaX (Pt clusters inside) revealed that exterior Pt clusters enhanced TOF by 1100% and improved propylene selectivity compared to interior clusters. Pt/NaX also showed less coke deposition and higher stability. The electronic state of Pt clusters, the surrounding zeolitic framework, and diffusion effects are key factors for improved propylene selectivity and conversion. The zeolitic framework modulates the d-band center of Pt clusters, affecting propane activation and propylene desorption, impacting selectivity and coke deposition.", "Doi": "10.1039/D1CY00738F"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, zeolite-based catalysts' performance is significantly influenced by preparation methods, composition, and topology. PtZn-containing zeolites Beta and mordenite with nSi/nAl-ratios >8.7 and zinc contents ~2.5 wt.% showed the highest and most stable propane conversions, achieving thermodynamic equilibrium for dehydrogenation to propene (XPr ~29%, T=555°C, p=0.1 MPa) for 63 h time-on-stream, with >90% propene selectivity. Zinc loading through impregnation or ion exchange affects activity and selectivity. ZnO, binuclear, and multinuclear zinc species coexist in ion-exchanged zeolites. Ion-exchanged zinc inhibits zinc loss and shifts platinum reduction peak to higher temperatures, indicating interaction. The hydrogen consumption peak at 530°C suggests a less noble species associated with zinc. The PtZn-containing zeolite 0.5Pt/2.6Zn-Beta maintains stable performance with negligible zinc loss. The hydrogenolysis and aromatization rates are low. Zinc incorporation methods do not significantly affect the catalytic behavior of large-pore zeolites with lower nSi/nAl ratios.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2006.03.028"},
{"DOC": "Preparation methods, composition, and topology significantly impact zeolite-based catalysts in PDH. Zn ion-exchange followed by Pt impregnation boosts Pt dispersion and reduces Zn loss, enhancing propylene selectivity and conversion. Optimized PtZn-Beta catalysts achieve high propane conversion and propylene selectivity near thermodynamic equilibrium. Dealumination creates Si-Beta zeolites with silanol nests, improving metal dispersion and PDH performance. Zn/Si-Beta outperforms Zn/Al-Beta in propane conversion and propylene selectivity. Co/Si-Beta catalysts exhibit higher propylene formation TOF. Na+ doping of Sn-Beta weakens Bronsted acidity, improving propylene selectivity without affecting Lewis acidity. Direct PDH on -Sn-(OSi)4 sites is energetically favorable. Encapsulated PtSn interactions in Si-Beta channels lead to high propane conversion, propylene selectivity, and stability. Isolated Pt atoms in catalysts with Zn-OH nests achieve high propylene selectivity and stability. Encapsulated Pt species in Pt@MCM-22 retain activity better than conventional Pt/MCM-22. Zn deposition on Y zeolites eliminates Bronsted acid sites and increases Lewis acid sites. Isolated Ga+/In+ sites enhance PDH reaction rates. PtSnNa/SUZ-4 shows superior stability due to coke distribution. Encapsulated Pt clusters in Pt@NaX have lower propane consumption TOF. PtSn/SAPO-34 exhibits higher propylene selectivity and yield than PtSn/ZSM-5 due to better coke-resistance.", "Doi": "10.1021/acscatal.3c00816_4"},
{"DOC": "The performance of PtSn-based catalysts in propane dehydrogenation is significantly influenced by the interactions between Pt, Sn, and the support, with the support playing a crucial role in stabilizing activity. The novel PtSn/SAPO-34 catalyst exhibits better stereochemistry control over propane and butane dehydrogenation to propylene. Optimal conditions include a temperature of 585 C, WHSV of 5.6 h-1, H2/C3H8 molar ratio of 0.25, and a conversion range of 14-25%. Sn loading modifies surface Pt ensembles, enhancing dispersion and facilitating carbon deposit transfer from metal sites to the support. However, excessive Sn (over 1 wt %) adversely affects performance. Sn decreases coke deposition by suppressing its formation, improving stability. The preparation involves mixing Al2O3, P2O5, SiO2, TEA, and H2O, and sequential impregnation for Sn and Pt loading. XRD confirms structure, XRF verifies metal content, and BET measures surface area. TPD, TPR, and TPO analyze surface properties, reduction behavior, and coke formation. IR spectroscopy studies acidity. Sn up to 1 wt % improves performance, but beyond this, it diminishes reaction rate. Sn content impacts stability and dehydrogenation activity. XRD shows unaltered SAPO-34 topology. XRF confirms metal loading, and BET indicates surface area decrease with Sn loading. NH3-TPD and IR show negligible effect on acidity with Sn (0.8-1.2 wt %). Highest ammonia uptake is at Pt(0.5 wt %)Sn(1 wt %)/SAPO-34. Increased Sn loading reduces Bronsted acid sites, improving propylene selectivity. At higher Sn (1.2 wt %), both L and B acidity are high but block Pt sites, reducing conversion. H2-TPR shows improved reduction properties with Sn, and higher Sn concentration leads to Sn0 species. Pt attached to SnOx is active for dehydrogenation. Sn facilitates carbon deposit transfer when metals interact well with the support. Sn modifies Pt ensembles, decreasing surface area and carbon-metal bonds, allowing easier intermediate movement to the support.", "Doi": "10.1021/ie901465s"},
{"DOC": "Dealumination of H-beta followed by metal impregnation creates Pt/Sn-Si-beta catalysts for PDH, where Sn species in tetrahedral coordination states and ultra-small Pt nanoclusters enhance catalytic performance. These catalysts achieve high propene selectivity and formation rates due to strong PtSn interactions and confinement effects, which also prevent coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring stable dehydrogenation and regeneration over multiple cycles.", "Doi": "10.1039/C9CY01907C"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, VOx catalysts on dealuminated Beta zeolite (SiBeta) exhibit varying catalytic activities depending on V loading. A linear relationship exists between catalytic activity and the amount of acidic sites, which are influenced by the interaction between VOx species and SiBeta. Propylene selectivity and deactivation rates increase with higher V loading, determined by the aggregation degree of VOx species.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(19)63444-3"},
{"DOC": "Encapsulating subnanometric clusters in zeolite pores boosts stability and catalytic applications. Framework-Sn in Beta zeolite anchors Pt precursors, forming Pt@Sn-Beta clusters. Zeolite pore restrictions and Sn's electronic effect inhibit coke formation and Pt cluster sintering, ensuring 90% of maximum propane conversion over 250 hours at 99% propene selectivity in PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2021.03.022"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, CoOx confined in dealuminated Beta (SiBeta) zeolite forms ultrasmall Co particles under H2 or reactant gas, enhancing PDH efficiency. Metallic Co, formed in situ during the reaction, acts as active sites. The CoSiBeta catalyst with 0.5 wt% Co shows state-of-the-art propylene productivity, achieving 72% propane conversion and 92% propylene selectivity at 600 C, outperforming other Co catalysts and matching industrial standards. Higher Co loadings increase initial propane conversion but also lead to cracking and carbon deposition. The 0.5CoSiBeta catalyst exhibits high propylene selectivity, and its catalytic activity is maintained over four cycles, indicating deactivation is primarily due to carbon deposits. The TOF value for PDH at 550 C is 32.9 h-1, with propylene selectivity above 97%, showcasing the catalyst's superiority. Small metallic Co particles, generated by reducing confined CoOx, are the active sites, demonstrating high catalytic activity, selectivity, and reusability.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2019.12.037"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions, the PtSnNa/SUZ-4 catalyst outperforms PtSnNa/ZSM-5 due to a higher external Pt quantity, which reduces deactivation by carbon deposition. The SUZ-4's strong acid sites prevent Pt precursor penetration, whereas ZSM-5's weak acidity allows deeper Pt dispersion, reducing catalytic activity. Sn oxide dispersion and reduction to the metallic state, influenced by zeolite acidity, also impact hydrocarbon dehydrogenation activity.", "Doi": "10.1016/S1872-2067(17)62750-5"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    