<quotes>
This journal is the Owner Societies 2016 Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2016, 18, 601--614  601 Cite this: Phys.Chem.Chem.Phys.,2016, 18, 601 ZnO modified ZSM-5 and Y zeolites fabricated by atomic layer deposition (ALD) for propane conversion Ting Gong, Lijun Qin, Jian Lu and Hao Feng* ZnO modified ZSM-5 and Y zeolites are synthesized by performing atomic layer deposition (ALD) of ZnO to HZSM-5 and HY using diethyl zinc and water as the precursors. The surface area and pore volume of ZSM-5 and Y zeolites are progressively reduced with the increasing number of ZnO ALD cycles. XRD and SEM characterization methods show that highly dispersed ZnO species are deposited on the internal and external surfaces of both zeolites. The ZnO species deposited on ZSM-5 are in an amorphous form while nano-crystallites of ZnO are present on Y zeolites after performing Z2 cycles of ZnO ALD. XPS and TPR characterization methods reveal that isolated Zn(OH)+ species are predominantly formed on both zeolites after the first cycle of ZnO ALD and the ZnO clusters gradually grow larger with the increasing number of ALD cycles. The type and strength of acid sites on the parent and the ALD ZnO modified zeolites are studied by FTIR spectra of adsorbed pyridine. Incorporation of ZnO into Y zeolite by ALD completely eliminates the Brnsted acid sites and increases the number of strong Lewis acid sites. Similar effects are obtained on ALD ZnO modified ZSM-5 except that the Brnsted acid sites are only partially removed. Catalytic properties of the ALD ZnO modified zeolites are evaluated in propane conversion. Introduction of ZnO species significantly improves the activities of both zeolites. Propylene is the major reaction product on ALD ZnO modified Y zeolite while high selectivities to aromatics are achieved on ALD ZnO modified ZSM-5. These results suggest that ZnO species merely promote the dehydrogenation reaction while the subsequent oligomerization and cyclization reactions require Brnsted acid sites. For both zeolites the catalyst fabricated by only 1 or 2 cycles of ZnO ALD performs better than those fabricated by multiple cycles of ALD, indicating that isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for the conversion of propane to propylene and aromatics.
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
The study demonstrates that the use of atomic layer deposition (ALD) to fabricate ZnO modified ZSM-5 and Y zeolites significantly enhances their catalytic performance in propane conversion. The surface area and pore volume of the zeolites decrease with the increase in the number of ALD cycles. SEM and XRD analyses indicate that ZnO is dispersed throughout the zeolite structure, forming amorphous particles on ZSM-5 and nanocrystals on Y zeolites after two cycles of ALD. XPS and TPR characterization reveals that the first ALD cycle leads to the formation of isolated Zn(OH)+ species on both zeolites, with ZnO clusters growing larger with more cycles. The study also finds that ALD ZnO modification affects the acid site type and strength on the zeolites, with Y zeolite showing complete elimination of Brnsted acid sites and an increase in strong Lewis acid sites, whereas ZSM-5 retains some Brnsted sites. The introduction of ZnO species boosts the catalytic activity of both zeolites, with propylene being the main product on Y zeolite and high selectivity to aromatics on ZSM-5. The study concludes that the ALD fabricated catalysts with 1 or 2 cycles of ZnO ALD perform better than those with multiple cycles, suggesting that isolated Zn(OH)+ species are more effective for propane conversion to propylene and aromatics.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
本研究展示了通过原子层沉积（ALD）制备的ZnO修饰ZSM-5和Y沸石在丙烷转化中的催化性能显著提高。随着ALD循环次数的增加，沸石的比表面积和孔体积逐渐减少。SEM和XRD分析显示，ZnO在整个沸石结构中分散，形成ZSM-5上的无定形颗粒和Y沸石上的纳米晶粒，经过两次ALD循环。XPS和TPR表征表明，首次ALD循环导致两种沸石上形成孤立的Zn(OH)+物种，随着更多循环次数，ZnO簇逐渐变大。研究还发现，ALD修饰对沸石上的酸性位点类型和强度有影响，Y沸石显示出完全消除Brnsted酸位点并增加强Lewis酸位点，而ZSM-5仅部分去除Brnsted位点。引入ZnO物种提高了两种沸石的催化活性，Y沸石主要产生丙烯，ZSM-5具有高芳烃选择性。研究结论指出，采用1或2次ALD循环制备的催化剂比多循环制备的催化剂性能更好，说明孤立的Zn(OH)+物种对于将丙烷转化为丙烯和芳烃更有效。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
