element not found
element not found
Journals & Books
Help
Search
My account
View PDF
Download full issue
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
Volume 341
, August 2022, 112115
Non-oxidative propane dehydrogenation over Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts: Ti species-tuned Co state and surface acidity
Author links open overlay panel
Yueqi Wu
,
Jiangping Long
,
Sheng Wei
,
Yating Gao
,
Dan Yang
,
Yihu Dai
,
Yanhui Yang
Show more
Add to Mendeley
Share
Cite
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.micromeso.2022.112115
Get rights and content
Highlights
•
Ti–ZSM–5 zeolite–supported Co nanoparticle catalyst selectively catalyze propane dehydrogenation.
•
Ti/Si ratios determine the location and chemical state of the Ti species in the Ti–ZSM–5 supports.
•
Ti/Si ratios tune the dispersion and chemical state of Co species and surface acid property.
•
Suppressing C3H8 C–C cracking and facilitating C3H6 desorption lead to high selectivity and anti–coke stability.
Abstract
With the modified Ti-ZSM-5 zeolites as supports, the propane dehydrogenation (PDH) performance of the non-noble metal Co-based catalysts can be enhanced, which is benefited from the Ti species-tuned state of active Co species and surface acid property. The developed Co/Ti-ZSM-5 catalysts exhibit >95% C3H6 selectivity and good regeneration stability in the recycling PDH reactions. The characterization results illustrate the structural evolution of Ti from the framework and extra-framework Ti species to the small-size anatase TiO2 species with decreasing the Si/Ti ratio of the Ti-ZSM-5 zeolites, tailoring the dispersion and chemical state of the Co sites at different Co-zeolite or Co-TiO2 interfaces. The Ti-ZSM-5 zeolites with high Si/Ti ratios also show significantly reduced surface acidity especially the Brønsted acidity in comparison with the Al-ZSM-5 zeolite, thus facilitating the C3H6 desorption for enhancing the selectivity and anti-coke stability.
Graphical abstract
Download: Download high-res image (224KB)
Download: Download full-size image
Previous article in issue
Next article in issue
Keywords
Propane dehydrogenationPropyleneCo catalystTi-ZSM-5 zeoliteAcidityCoke
Loading...
Data availability
All data in this study are included in this published article and its supplementary material files, and they are also available from the corresponding author on reasonable request.
Cited by (0)
View Abstract
© 2022 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Recommended articles
Loading...
About ScienceDirect
Remote access
Shopping cart
Advertise
Contact and support
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies are used by this site.
Cookie Settings
All content on this site: Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V., its licensors, and contributors. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies. For all open access content, the Creative Commons licensing terms apply.