Based on the in-depth details extracted from the file related to 'Provide a comprehensive explanation of the alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, detailing its key steps from initial propane activation to product formation. Compare this mechanism to the carbenium mechanism, discuss why the CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS), and explain how the alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures.', construct an analytical and comprehensive review section on propane dehydrogenation catalysts, emphasizing 'The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts: key steps, rate-determining step, and comparison with the carbenium mechanism'.

    While developing the content, adhere to the following protocols:

    1. **Accurate Citations**: Reference specific content from the file by embedding the actual DOI numbers furnished, without any alterations. Utilize the format '\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI\]' right after the sentence where the reference is applied. 
       
    2. **Strict Adherence**: Stick to the particulars and DOI details from the file; avoid integrating external or speculative data.

    3. **Scientific Language**: Uphold a technical and scholarly diction akin to chemical engineering literature.

    4. **Format &amp; Translation**: After creating the main review content, append an 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' section within the same <English></English> and <Chinese></Chinese> XML tags, demarcated with '※※※'. This segment should transcend a mere summation and foster a forward-thinking discussion, potentially elucidating future directions and broader horizons grounded in the file's content. 

    The content structure should resemble:

    <example>
            <English> 
                    Detailed analysis established from the study of reference \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]. Synthesized comprehension stemming from references \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\] and \[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]. 
                    ※※※
                    Integrative understanding and prospective outlook: Taking into consideration the advancements and findings discussed in the file, there lies an opportunity to explore emerging fields and innovative methodologies. Future research endeavors might focus on ...
            </English>
            <Chinese> 
                    基于\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1\]参考文献的深度分析。从\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2\]和\[Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3\]的参考文献中获得的综合理解。
                    ※※※
                    综合理解与未来展望: 考虑到文件中讨论的先进成果和发现，我们有机会探索新兴领域和创新方法。未来的研究努力可能会集中在...
            </Chinese>
            <References> 
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI1
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI2
                    Placeholder\_Of\_DOI3
            </References>
    </example>

    In the 'integrative understanding and prospective outlook' segment, aspire to:

    - **Offer an expansive perspective**: Illuminate potential pathways and pioneering research opportunities, grounded in the details divulged in the file.
    - **Propose forward-thinking suggestions**: Advocate for innovative angles and burgeoning domains that might take center stage in future explorations, while rooted in the file's details.

    Finally, compile all the cited DOIs in the 'References' compartment, adhering to the <References></References> XML tag, using the exact DOIs designated in the file.

    <file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraph1Info.txt">
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are proposed as the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group. The initial step is the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism involving the zeolite lattice's basic oxygen atoms. This mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is 193 kJ/mol, significantly higher than the 158 kJ/mol reported for GaH2+ species. However, the overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is 233 kJ/mol, lower than for the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2. The reactivity of GaH+2 ions is strongly dependent on the distance between the stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts involves propane activation by gallium species, forming an alkyl-gallium intermediate. This intermediate decomposes to produce an alkene and regenerate the active site. The mechanism applies to isolated Ga(I) species and dihydridogallium ions, depending on conditions. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization and promotes methane and ethane formation, competing with propane for active sites. The isolated gallium species form from binuclear gallium oxidic species during reduction. Our results suggest that the decomposition of the alkylhydrido intermediate occurs differently than proposed, likely through reactions (17) and (18). The zeolite Brnsted acid sites are responsible for subsequent aromatization reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by hydride abstraction or proton addition, unlike the carbenium mechanism which directly protonates propane. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, allowing turnover without cracking products (Quote 5). These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing the recombinative desorption of H-atoms as H2 (Quote 6). The CH activation step is the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energetic unfavorability of breaking strong C-H bonds (Quote 8). This mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, as Ga's beneficial effect on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity is observed with various introduction techniques (Quote 1).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves initial propane activation, where the carbon atom develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the CH bond polarization results in a positive carbon and negative hydrogen, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. The alkyl mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, with lower overall free energy for alkyl activation in the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a compared to carbenium activation. Alkene desorption is a rate-limiting step for the alkyl activation cycle. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming [H2GaC2H5], followed by alkyl desorption. The initial CH activation step, with a high activation barrier, is the rate-determining step. This barrier is higher than previously calculated, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. In contrast, the carbenium mechanism has a lower activation barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal. The higher barrier in the alkyl mechanism is directly related to the endothermicity of the CH activation step.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures and features the CH activation step as the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, with the initial CH activation step proceeding via oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation. This step is indirect and heterolytic, involving the basic oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice. The reaction mechanism includes dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and ring closure steps. The activation energy for this process is 224 kJ/mol, and the overall activation energy for ethane dehydrogenation over Ga/ZSM-5 is 233 kJ/mol. The alkyl mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is 193 kJ/mol, higher than the 158 kJ/mol reported for GaH2+ species. However, the overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is lower than for the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the breaking of a strong C-H bond. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2. The reactivity of GaH+2 ions is strongly dependent on the distance between the stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts involves propane activation by gallium species, forming an alkyl-gallium intermediate. This intermediate decomposes to produce an alkene and regenerate the active site, differing from the carbenium mechanism. The rate-determining step is the CH activation, and the mechanism applies to various Ga species structures. Our results suggest that the decomposition of the alkylhydrido intermediate occurs by reactions (17) and (18) instead of regenerating the dihydrido active site, as proposed by Frash and van Santen. This mechanism is influenced by hydrogen, which competes with propane for active sites and affects catalyst activity and selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves hydride abstraction or proton addition to activate propane, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step due to the energy required to break strong C-H bonds. Ga ions increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom desorption as H2. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, enhancing alkane aromatization rates and selectivity. The presence of Ga species allows hydrogen to adsorb, competing for surface sites and decreasing aromatic selectivity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This mechanism contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the CH bond polarization results in a positive carbon and negative hydrogen, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is considered the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. Alkene desorption from the Gaalkyl intermediate is a rate-limiting step for the alkyl activation catalytic cycle, regardless of the catalytic site's activity. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit of about 55 kcal/mol for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond activation by [HGaH]+, forming [H2GaC2H5], followed by H2 removal and alkyl desorption. The CH activation step, with a barrier of 48.66 kcal/mol, is the RDS, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, which has a lower barrier for CH activation (85.72 kcal/mol) and hydrogen removal. The high barrier in the alkyl mechanism is due to the endothermicity of the CH activation step (51.40 kcal/mol).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. This mechanism applies to Ga+, [GaH]+, and Ga2O22+ species, with the CH activation step proposed as the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, starting with the oxidative addition of propane to Ga+ via an indirect heterolytic mechanism. This mechanism, consisting of dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and ring closure steps, is favored over the carbenium mechanism due to lower activation energy (193 kJ/mol vs. 104 kJ/mol). The CH activation step, involving the breaking of a strong C-H bond, is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS). Among Ga species, Ga+ is the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2, with the latter's reactivity strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, with Ga+ being the most active for the initial CH bond cleavage reaction.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts involves propane activation by gallium species, forming alkyl-gallium intermediates that decompose to produce alkene molecules and regenerate the active site. This mechanism, analyzed by Frash and van Santen for ethane activation on gallium-exchanged zeolites with dihydridogallium ions as active sites, is suggested by our results to proceed via alternative reactions (17) and (18) instead of the proposed regeneration. The mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, influenced by hydrogen addition, which suppresses aromatization and promotes methane and ethane formation, competing with propane for active sites. Reduced gallium species are responsible for dehydrogenation reactions, while zeolite Brnsted acid sites handle oligomerization, cyclization, and hydride transfer in aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation through hydride abstraction or proton addition, unlike the carbenium mechanism which directly protonates propane. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom desorption as H2, a step proposed as the rate-determining step due to the energetic cost of C-H bond breaking. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, enhancing alkane aromatization rates and selectivity, as observed with Ga ions introduced by impregnation or ion exchange techniques. C-H bond activation predominantly occurs on BrOnsted acid sites, supporting the alkyl mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates (Quote [3]). The activated intermediate D undergoes alkyl activation, forming a Gaalkyl species and a Brnsted acid site (Quote [8]). Ethene is then desorbed from the Gaalkyl intermediate, leaving behind gallium dihydride ([GaH2]+Z m) (Quote [9]). This ethene desorption is the rate-limiting step for the alkyl activation cycle (Quote [12], [13], [16], [44]). In contrast, the carbenium mechanism involves CH bond polarization with carbon positively charged and hydrogen negatively charged, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step due to the energy required to break the C-H bond (Quote [12]). A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol (Quote [131], [133]).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming [H2GaC2H5], followed by rotation, H2 removal, and alkyl desorption. The initial CH activation is the RDS, with a barrier matching experimental values. However, further studies show higher barriers for CH activation and alkyl desorption, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. This challenges the single-site [HGaH]+ model. In contrast, the carbenium mechanism has a lower barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal, with the higher barrier directly related to the endothermicity of the CH activation step.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. This mechanism applies to Ga+, [GaH]+, and Ga2O22+ species. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, with the initial CH activation step proceeding via oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation. This step, involving the basic oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice, is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. The activation energy for this process is 193 kJ/mol, significantly higher than the 158 kJ/mol reported for GaH2+ species. The overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is 233 kJ/mol, lower than for the carbenium mechanism. Different Ga species structures apply, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2. The reactivity of GaH+2 ions is strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra, with greater AlAl distances leading to low stability and decomposition to Ga+ and a Brnsted acid site.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by gallium species, forming an alkyl-gallium intermediate that decomposes to produce an alkene and regenerate the active site. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS). Different Ga species structures, including isolated Ga(I) species and dihydridogallium ions, play roles depending on reaction conditions. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization and promotes methane and ethane formation, competing with hydrocarbons for active sites. The alkyl mechanism applies to various Ga species, with isolated Ga(I) species forming from binuclear gallium oxidic species during reduction. Dihydridogallium ions, observed after hydrogen reduction, decompose slowly and are not active for alkane activation. Under propane flow, alkylgallium ions replace dihydridogallium ions rapidly, indicating the active site for alkane activation. Theoretical studies by Frash and van Santen propose dihydridogallium ions as active sites for ethane activation, but our results suggest an alternative pathway for alkylhydrido intermediate decomposition.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves hydride abstraction or proton addition to activate propane, differing from the carbenium mechanism's direct protonation. Ga and Zn enhance propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom desorption as H2. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step due to the energy required to break strong C-H bonds. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as confirmed by increased rates and selectivity observed with Ga ions introduced by impregnation or ion exchange. C-H bond activation predominantly occurs on BrOnsted acid sites, supporting the alkyl mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the carbon assumes a positive charge and hydrogen a negative charge, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The alkyl mechanism's CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. Alkene desorption from the Gaalkyl intermediate is a rate-limiting step for the overall alkyl activation catalytic cycle, regardless of the catalytic site's activity. For the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a, the overall free energy of alkyl activation is lower than carbenium activation. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from the gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming [H2GaC2H5], followed by H2 removal and alkyl desorption. The initial CH activation step, with a high activation barrier, is the rate-determining step. This barrier is higher than previously calculated, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. The carbenium mechanism has a lower activation barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal, with the barrier directly related to the endothermicity of the CH activation step. The single-site [HGaH]+ model is insufficient to represent the true mechanism for Ga-assisted dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. This mechanism applies to Ga+, [GaH]+, and Ga2O22+ species. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, starting with the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism. This mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is 193 kJ/mol, significantly higher than the 158 kJ/mol for GaH2+ species, but the overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is 233 kJ/mol, lower than for the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the breaking of a strong C-H bond. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2, whose reactivity is strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts involves propane activation by a gallium species, forming an alkyl-gallium intermediate. This intermediate decomposes to produce an alkene molecule and regenerate the active site. The mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, including isolated Ga(I) species and dihydridogallium ions, depending on reaction conditions. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization, promoting methane and ethane formation, but competes with propane for active sites. The isolated gallium species are formed from binuclear gallium oxidic species during reduction, and reduced gallium species are responsible for dehydrogenation reactions. The decomposition of the alkylhydrido intermediate occurs by reactions alternative to the regeneration of the dihydrido active site, as proposed by Frash and van Santen.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by hydride abstraction or proton addition, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation rates by facilitating H-atom removal from acid sites, preventing cracking products (quotes [3], [5]). These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption as H2 (quote [6]). The CH activation step is the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energetic cost of breaking strong C-H bonds (quote [8]). The alkyl mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as Ga's beneficial effect on alkane aromatization is observed with different introduction methods (quotes [1], [14]).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where the carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the carbon assumes a positive partial charge and hydrogen a negative charge, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is considered the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. Alkyl activation, followed by ethene desorption, is a rate-limiting step for the overall catalytic cycle, regardless of the catalytic site's activity. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit of about 55 kcal/mol for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming a tetrahedral intermediate, followed by hydrogen removal and alkyl desorption. The initial CH activation step, with a high activation barrier, is the rate-determining step, especially at higher temperatures. This barrier, initially calculated as 3940 kcal/mol, closely matches the experimental value of 39 kcal/mol, but further calculations suggest a higher barrier of 48.66 kcal/mol. The high barrier for alkyl desorption (61.67 kcal/mol) leads to a low intrinsic reaction rate. The single-site [HGaH]+ model is insufficient to represent the true mechanism. In contrast, the carbenium mechanism has a lower activation barrier for CH activation (85.72 kcal/mol) and a much lower barrier for hydrogen removal. The higher barrier in the carbenium mechanism is due to the endothermicity of the CH activation step (51.40 kcal/mol).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and propylene/H2 desorption. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group. The initial step is the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism involving the zeolite lattice's basic oxygen atoms. This mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is 193 kJ/mol, significantly higher than the 158 kJ/mol for GaH2+ species. However, the overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is 233 kJ/mol, lower than for the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. Different Ga species structures apply, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2. The reactivity of GaH+2 ions is strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by gallium species, forming an alkyl-gallium intermediate that decomposes to produce an alkene and regenerate the active site. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS). Different Ga species structures, including isolated Ga(I) species and dihydridogallium ions, play roles depending on reaction conditions. Our results suggest that the alkylhydrido intermediate decomposes via reactions (17) and (18) instead of regenerating the dihydrido active site, as proposed in theoretical studies. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization and promotes methane and ethane formation, competing with propane for active sites. Reduced gallium species are responsible for dehydrogenation, while zeolite Brnsted acid sites handle oligomerization, cyclization, and hydride transfer in aromatization.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves hydride abstraction or proton addition to activate propane, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation rates by removing H-atoms from acid sites, allowing turnover without cracking products (Quote 5). These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption as H2 (Quote 6). The rate-determining step (RDS) is the C-H bond activation, due to the energetic cost of breaking a strong C-H bond (Quote 8). This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as Ga's beneficial effect on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity is observed with different introduction techniques (Quote 3).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the carbon assumes a positive partial charge and hydrogen a negative charge, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. For the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a, the overall free energy of alkyl activation is lower than carbenium activation, but alkene desorption is a rate-limiting step for the alkyl activation catalytic cycle. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit of about 55 kcal/mol for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond activation by [HGaH]+, forming a tetrahedral intermediate, followed by H2 removal and alkyl desorption. The initial CH activation step, with a high activation barrier, is the rate-determining step (RDS), leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, which has a lower activation barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal. The higher barrier in the alkyl mechanism is directly related to the endothermicity of the CH activation step. The single-site [HGaH]+ model does not accurately represent the true mechanism for Ga-assisted dehydrogenation.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by Ga cations, forming an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and propylene/H2 desorption. This mechanism applies to Ga+, [GaH]+, and Ga2O22+ species, with CH activation proposed as the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga facilitates H2 release, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group. The initial step is the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism involving the zeolite lattice's basic oxygen atoms. This mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is 193 kJ/mol, significantly higher than the 158 kJ/mol reported for GaH2+ species. However, the overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is 233 kJ/mol, lower than for the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2. The reactivity of GaH+2 ions is strongly dependent on the distance between the stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by gallium species, forming alkyl-gallium intermediates. These intermediates decompose to produce alkene molecules and regenerate the active site. The mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, influenced by reaction conditions. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization, promoting methane and ethane formation, but competes with propane for active sites. Theoretical analysis by Frash and van Santen suggests dihydridogallium ions as active sites for ethane activation, but our results indicate reactions (17) and (18) for alkylhydrido intermediate decomposition. Under propane flow, dihydridogallium cations are replaced by alkylgallium ions, stabilizing the reduced gallium species. The rate-determining step (RDS) is proposed as the CH activation, distinguishing the alkyl mechanism from the carbenium mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves hydride abstraction or proton addition to activate propane, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step due to the energetic unfavorability of breaking a strong C-H bond. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation rates by removing H-atoms from acid sites, allowing turnover without cracking products (Quote [5]). These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom recombinative desorption as H2 (Quote [6]). This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as Ga's beneficial effect on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity is observed regardless of introduction technique (Quote [1]). The H-atom disposal step remains the rate-determining step for each dehydrogenation reaction (Quote [8]).", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, leading to a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates, while the carbenium mechanism forms alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the C-H bond. Alkyl activation is more facile than carbenium activation but faces a high barrier for ethene removal, making it the rate-limiting step. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, setting a lower limit of about 55 kcal/mol for the apparent activation barrier. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, with lower activation energy for alkyl activation compared to carbenium activation in the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming [H2GaC2H5], followed by rotation, hydrogen removal, and alkyl desorption. The initial CH activation is the rate-determining step (RDS) due to its high activation barrier, which aligns with experimental values. This barrier is higher than previously calculated, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. The single-site [HGaH]+ model is insufficient, suggesting a more complex mechanism. In contrast, the carbenium mechanism has a lower activation barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal, with the higher barrier directly related to the endothermicity of the CH activation step.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are proposed as the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, starting with the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism. This mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is higher than for GaH2+ species, but the overall activation barrier is lower than for the carbenium mechanism. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2, whose reactivity is strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by gallium species, forming alkyl-gallium intermediates. These intermediates decompose to produce alkene molecules and regenerate the active site. The mechanism differs from the carbenium mechanism, with the CH activation step proposed as the rate-determining step. Under propane flow, dihydridogallium cations are replaced by stable alkylgallium ions, indicating irreversible formation of isolated Ga(I) species. Hydrogen addition affects catalyst activity and selectivity, suppressing aromatization reactions and promoting methane and ethane formation. The active sites for alkane activation are not dihydridogallium species, as previously suggested. The alkyl mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, influenced by reaction conditions. Reactions (17) and (18) are proposed for the decomposition of alkylhydrido intermediates, instead of the regeneration of dihydrido active sites.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation through hydride abstraction or proton addition, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom desorption as H2, a step confirmed as rate-determining due to the energetic unfavorability of C-H bond breaking. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as Ga's beneficial effect on alkane aromatization is observed with different introduction techniques. C-H bond activation predominantly occurs on BrOnsted acid sites, supporting the alkyl mechanism's validity.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where the carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the carbon assumes a positive charge and hydrogen a negative charge, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is considered the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. Alkene desorption from the Gaalkyl intermediate is a rate-limiting step for the alkyl activation catalytic cycle, regardless of the catalytic site's activity. For the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a, the overall free energy of alkyl activation is lower than carbenium activation. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit of about 55 kcal/mol for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond activation by [HGaH]+, forming a tetrahedral intermediate that rotates and desorbs alkyl species. The initial CH activation step, with a high activation barrier, is the rate-determining step, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, which has a lower barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal. The single-site [HGaH]+ model is insufficient, as evidenced by higher calculated activation barriers for CH activation and alkyl desorption, indicating the need for a more complex mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are the rate-determining steps. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, starting with the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism. This mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is 193 kJ/mol, higher than the 158 kJ/mol for the GaH2+ species, but the overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is lower at 233 kJ/mol. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. Different Ga species structures apply, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2, whose reactivity is strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts involves propane activation by gallium species, forming an alkyl-gallium intermediate. This intermediate decomposes to produce an alkene and regenerate the active site. The mechanism applies to isolated Ga(I) species and dihydridogallium ions, depending on conditions. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization and promotes methane and ethane formation, competing with propane for active sites. The isolated gallium species are formed from binuclear gallium oxidic species during reduction. Subsequent steps involve zeolite Brnsted acid sites for oligomerization, cyclization, and hydride transfer reactions, while reduced gallium species are responsible for dehydrogenation. The alkyl mechanism contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, with the CH activation step proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS).", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves hydride abstraction or proton addition to activate propane, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom desorption as H2. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energetic unfavorability of breaking strong C-H bonds. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as Ga's beneficial effect on alkane aromatization is observed regardless of introduction technique. C-H bond activation predominantly occurs on BrOnsted acid sites, supporting the alkyl mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the CH bond polarizes differently, forming alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is considered the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. Alkyl activation, following the formation of intermediate D, results in a Gaalkyl species and a Brnsted acid site, with subsequent ethene desorption leaving behind gallium dihydride. Despite alkyl activation being more facile, ethene removal from the Gaalkyl intermediate faces a high activation barrier, making it a spectator species and a rate-limiting step. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been proposed, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming a tetrahedral intermediate that rotates and desorbs, with the initial CH activation step being the rate-determining step due to a high activation barrier (48.66 kcal/mol). This barrier leads to a low intrinsic reaction rate. The single-site [HGaH]+ model is insufficient, as the carbenium mechanism, with a lower activation barrier for hydrogen removal, is more favorable. The endothermicity of CH activation (51.40 kcal/mol) in the carbenium mechanism contributes to its higher activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and propylene/H2 desorption. This mechanism applies to Ga+, [GaH]+, and Ga2O22+ species, with the CH activation step proposed as the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, which facilitates H2 release, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, with the initial step being the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism. This mechanism consists of dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and ring closure steps. The activation energy for this process is 224 kJ/mol, and the overall activation barrier for ethane dehydrogenation over Ga/ZSM-5 is 233 kJ/mol. The alkyl mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion, with an activation energy of 104 kJ/mol. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. Ga+ is the most favorable gallium species, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2, with the reactivity of GaH+2 ions strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra. When Al atoms are closely located, GaH+2 ions are stable but less active for CH bond cleavage, while greater AlAl distances result in low stability and decomposition to Ga+ and a Brnsted acid site.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves the formation of alkyl-gallium intermediates from propane activation by gallium species. These intermediates decompose to produce alkene molecules and regenerate the active site. The mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, including isolated Ga(I) species and dihydridogallium ions, depending on the reaction conditions. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization reactions and promotes methane and ethane formation, competing with propane for active sites. The alkyl mechanism contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, with the CH activation step proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS). The formation of isolated Ga(I) species from binuclear oxidic gallium clusters and the stabilization of alkyl groups bonded to gallium are crucial for the mechanism's effectiveness. The decomposition of alkylhydrido intermediates occurs by reactions (17) and (18) instead of regenerating the dihydrido active site, as proposed in theoretical studies.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves hydride abstraction or proton addition to activate propane, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energetic unfavorability of breaking a strong C-H bond. Ga and Zn ions increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom desorption as H2. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as Ga's beneficial effect on alkane aromatization is observed with different introduction techniques. [3] shows that C-H bond activation rate is weakly dependent on Ga and Zn presence. [5] and [6] confirm that Ga and Zn increase propene formation and catalyze H-atom desorption. [8] states that H-atom disposal remains the RDS for sequential dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves initial propane activation, where the carbon atom develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, where the CH bond polarization leads to alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. Alkyl activation applies to different Ga species, with lower overall free energy for the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a compared to carbenium activation. Alkene desorption is a rate-limiting step for alkyl activation, regardless of the catalytic site's activity. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond activation by [HGaH]+ species, forming a tetrahedral intermediate that undergoes rotation and hydrogen removal. The initial CH activation step is the rate-determining step, with a high activation barrier, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, which has a lower activation barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal. The high barrier for CH activation in the alkyl mechanism is directly related to the endothermicity of this step. The single-site [HGaH]+ model does not accurately represent the true mechanism for Ga-assisted dehydrogenation, as concluded from literature and further calculations.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and propylene/H2 desorption. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga facilitates H2 release, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, starting with the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism. This mechanism consists of dehydrogenation, oligomerization, and ring closure steps. The activation energy for this process is 224 kJ/mol, and the overall activation barrier for ethane dehydrogenation over Ga/ZSM-5 is 233 kJ/mol. The alkyl mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion, with an activation energy of 104 kJ/mol. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breaking. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, with Ga+ being the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2. The reactivity of GaH+2 ions is strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra, with greater AlAl distances leading to low stability and decomposition to Ga+ and a Brnsted acid site, while closely located Al atoms stabilize GaH+2 ions with lower activity for initial CH bond cleavage.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by gallium species, forming alkyl-gallium intermediates. These intermediates decompose to produce alkene molecules and regenerate the active site. The mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, including isolated Ga(I) species and dihydridogallium ions, depending on reaction conditions. Theoretical analysis by Frash and van Santen suggests dihydridogallium ions as active sites for ethane activation, but our results indicate that alkylhydrido intermediates decompose through reactions (17) and (18) instead. Hydrogen addition suppresses aromatization reactions and promotes methane and ethane formation, competing with propane for active sites. The isolated gallium species are formed from binuclear gallium oxidic species during reduction, and subsequent steps involve zeolite Brnsted acid sites for oligomerization, cyclization, and hydride transfer reactions in aromatization, while reduced gallium species are responsible for dehydrogenation reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves hydride abstraction or proton addition to activate propane, differing from the carbenium mechanism which forms carbonium ions directly. The CH activation step, involving the breaking of a strong C-H bond, is the rate-determining step due to its energetic unfavorability. Ga ions, introduced by impregnation or ion exchange, increase propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites, preventing cracking products. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes', catalyzing the recombinative desorption of H-atoms as H2, a critical step in the mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH bond polarization, where carbon develops a negative charge and hydrogen a positive charge, leading to metal-alkyl and Brnsted acid intermediates. The activated intermediate D undergoes alkyl activation, forming a Gaalkyl species and a Brnsted acid site, followed by ethene desorption, leaving gallium dihydride. This ethene desorption is the rate-limiting step for the alkyl activation cycle. The carbenium mechanism, in contrast, involves CH bond polarization with a positive carbon charge and negative hydrogen charge, leading to alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. Alkyl activation has lower overall free energy than carbenium activation for the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, involving a cyclic transition state with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit of about 55 kcal/mol for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming [H2GaC2H5], followed by rotation, hydrogen removal, and alkyl desorption. The initial CH activation is the RDS, with an activation barrier of 39 kcal/mol, rising to 48.66 kcal/mol in further calculations. Alkyl desorption has a barrier of 61.67 kcal/mol, limiting the reaction rate. In contrast, the carbenium mechanism has a lower barrier for CH activation (85.72 kcal/mol) and much lower for hydrogen removal (15.49 kcal/mol), with the endothermicity of CH activation (51.40 kcal/mol) affecting the barrier height.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by the metal cation to form an alkyl gallium intermediate, followed by β-elimination and desorption of propylene and hydrogen. This mechanism applies to various Ga species structures. The CH activation step and alkyl metal intermediate formation are the RDS. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, where Ga species facilitate hydrogen recombination, the alkyl mechanism activates the CH bond in propane.", "Doi": "10.1002/advs.202207756_4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves gallium acting as an acceptor of the alkyl group, starting with the oxidative addition of an alkane molecule to the Ga+ cation via an indirect heterolytic mechanism. This mechanism is more favorable than the carbenium mechanism, which involves the formation of a carbenium ion and a hydride ion. The activation energy for the alkyl mechanism is 193 kJ/mol, significantly higher than the 158 kJ/mol for GaH2+ species, yet the overall activation barrier for the alkyl mechanism is lower at 233 kJ/mol. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the strong C-H bond breakage. Among Ga species, Ga+ is the most favorable, followed by GaH2+ and GaH+2, with the reactivity of GaH+2 ions strongly dependent on the distance between stabilizing aluminum-occupied oxygen tetrahedra. When Al atoms are closely located, GaH+2 ions are the most stable but exhibit lower activity for initial CH bond cleavage.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.03.011"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by a gallium species, forming an alkyl-gallium intermediate. This intermediate decomposes to produce an alkene and regenerate the active site. The mechanism differs from the carbenium mechanism and the CH activation step is considered the rate-determining step. The alkyl mechanism applies to various Ga species structures. Theoretical analysis by Frash and van Santen suggests dihydridogallium ions as active sites for ethane activation, but our results indicate that the alkylhydrido intermediate decomposes via reactions (17) and (18) instead. The key steps include: ZGa+ + C3H8 → ZGa+H(C3H7), ZGa+H(C3H7) → ZGa+ + H2 + C3H6, and ZGa+H(C3H7) → ZGa+(CH3)(C2H5). These steps are crucial for understanding the PDH process on gallium-based catalysts.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.apcata.2012.05.036"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves propane activation by hydride abstraction or proton addition, forming carbenium ions. Ga and Zn ions enhance propene formation by facilitating H-atom removal from acid sites, preventing cracking products. These metals act as 'portholes', catalyzing H-atom desorption as H2, a critical step for sequential dehydrogenation. The C-H bond activation is the rate-determining step due to the strong bond's energy barrier. Unlike the carbenium mechanism, which directly protonates propane, the alkyl mechanism applies to various Ga species structures, as evidenced by increased aromatization rates and selectivity with Ga ions introduced by impregnation or ion exchange. The presence of Ga species also boosts H2 dissociative adsorption and H-atom recombinative desorption during PDH reactions.", "Doi": "10.1016/s0920-5861(96)00028-4"},
{"DOC": "In propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves the activation of propane, leading to the formation of a metal-alkyl and a Brnsted acid as intermediates. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, which forms alkoxide and metal hydride intermediates. The CH activation step is considered the rate-determining step (RDS) due to the energy required to break the strong C-H bond. For the 4-membered ring cluster Z4a, the overall free energy of alkyl activation is lower than that of carbenium activation. However, alkene desorption is a rate-limiting step for the alkyl activation catalytic cycle. A novel one-step H2 and C2H4 desorption pathway from gallium alkyl intermediate has been reported, with an activation barrier of 53.5 kcal/mol, setting a lower limit of about 55 kcal/mol for the apparent activation barrier.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.jcat.2006.11.032"},
{"DOC": "In PDH reactions on gallium-based catalysts, the alkyl mechanism involves initial CH activation by [HGaH]+, forming a tetrahedral intermediate that rotates and desorbs alkyl species. The CH activation step is the rate-determining step, with a high activation barrier, leading to a low intrinsic reaction rate. This contrasts with the carbenium mechanism, which has a lower barrier for CH activation and hydrogen removal. The single-site [HGaH]+ model is insufficient, as evidenced by higher calculated activation barriers for CH activation and alkyl desorption, indicating the need for a more complex mechanism.", "Doi": "10.1016/j.cattod.2005.04.017"}

    </file-attachment-contents>
    