I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


rsc.li/catalysis
Catalysis
Science &
T
echnology rsc.li/catalysis
ISSN 2044-4761
PAPER
Chaoqiu Chen, Yong Qin et al.
Highly dispersed Pt nanoparticles supported on carbon nanotubes produced by atomic layer deposition for hydrogen generation from hydrolysis of ammonia borane Volume 7 Number 2 21 January 2017 Pages 313-534
Catalysis
Science &
T
echnology This is an Accepted Manuscript, which has been through the Royal Society of Chemistry peer review process and has been accepted for publication.
Accepted Manuscripts are published online shortly after acceptance,before technical editing, formatting and proof reading. Using this free service, authors can make their results available to the community, in citable form, before we publish the edited article. We will replace this Accepted Manuscript with the edited and formatted Advance Article as soon as it is available.
You can find more information about Accepted Manuscripts in the Information for Authors.
Please note that technical editing may introduce minor changes to the text and/or graphics, which may alter content. The journals standard Terms & Conditions and the Ethical guidelines still apply. In no event shall the Royal Society of Chemistry be held responsible for any errors or omissions in this Accepted Manuscript or any consequences arising from the use of any information it contains.
Accepted Manuscript View Article Online View Journal This article can be cited before page numbers have been issued, to do this please use:  H. Wang and G.
Tsilomelekis, Catal. Sci. Technol., 2020, DOI: 10.1039/D0CY00586J.
Received 00th January 20xx, Accepted 00th January 20xx
DOI: 10.1039/x0xx00000x
Catalytic Performance and Stability of Fe-Doped CeO2 in Propane Oxidative Dehydrogenation Using Carbon Dioxide as Oxidant Hedun Wang a and George Tsilomelekis* a Propane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) in the presence of CO2 was investigated over a series of Fe-doped CeO2 catalysts.
The well-recognized properties of cerium oxide materials regarding imporved  oxygen mobility and oxygen storage capacity (OSC) was utilized towards the synthesis of stable catalytic systems. The iron-cerium oxide solid solution catalysts with Fe dopant content from 1% up to 15% were successfully synthesized via co-precipitation method and calcined at 873K. It was confirmed by XRD and Raman characterization that all samples featured single cerianite crystalline phase with periodic lattice Ce ions substituted by Fe ions, with no hematite phase identified. Initial screening of catalytic behavior showed that propane ODH pathway was enhanced at high Fe/Ce ratio while propane cracking was suppressed. Stable propane conversion and propylene selectivity for up to 20 hours was achieved for the synthesized catalysts with moderate Fe loading. Ex-situ Raman, XPS and STEM was applied to analyze post-reaction catalyst and confirmed that deactivation occurred over low Fe catalysts were resulted from coke deposition on the surface, while CeO2 sintering and Fe migration to form nanocrystals were the primary deactivation reasons for high Fe loading catalysts.
Key words: propane oxidative dehydrogenation; Fe-CeO2 solid solution; surface oxygen vacancy; stability; deactivation
Introduction Propylene is undoubtedly among the most important and fastest growing in demand petrochemicals. Although fluid catalytic cracking (FCC) as well as steam cracking processes are still widely utilized, research efforts have been placed in developing new technologies that maximize propylene production while addressing the big gap between supply and demand. Vast availability of low molecular weight alkanes due to the recent shale gas revolution is considered as a game- changing opportunity towards the potential development of on-purpose production processes.
Propane direct dehydrogenation (DH) as well as oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) have attracted worldwide academic and industrial interests, but both suffer from limitations that have been reviewed extensively elsewhere1-3.
Propane DH is an endothermic reaction and thus high temperatures are required to achieve acceptable olefin yields. 3836 + 2   ,   = +124.3 /         (1) The CATOFIN dehydrogenation process4-5 provides 850000 MTA (million metric tons annually) of propylene with minimum of 99.5% purity and is based on chromium oxide supported on activated alumina. The toxicity of the chromium-based catalysts, especially the hexavalent chromium species that initially dominate the surface of the catalyst, is an important issue. The Oleflex dehydrogenation process4-5 relies on the traditional Pt/Sn catalytic system to produce polymer grade propylene. The high operating temperature as well as the cost of the Pt catalysts comprise the main drawbacks. In addition,the reaction is usually accompanied by catalyst deactivation due to coke formation and spatial separation of Pt-Sn species thus highlighting the stability of catalysts used among the major botlenecks6-7.
On the other hand, although the exothermic character of propane ODH with O2 has the potential to significantly reduce the reaction temperature, the fate of the desired propylene is difficult to be controlled due to unavoidable combustion of propane as well as of propylene to carbon monoxide and/or dioxide thus significantly lowering propylene selectivity. Even though there is very rich literature on various catalytic systems (e.g. metals, transition metal oxides, rare-earth metal oxides,metal carbides, supported alkali oxides and supported alkali chlorides), the lack of suitable catalysts that exhibit high activity while maintaining promising olefin selectivity is hampering potential endeavors for large scale commercializing.
The aforementioned competitive reaction network due to the overoxidation of parafins and/or olefins can be suppressed by replacing oxygen with a weak oxidant, such as carbon dioxide8.
The use of CO2 as, alternative to oxygen, soft oxidant has the potential to i) avoid deep oxidation of alkanes/alkenes, ii) reduce coke formation and iii) favor propane conversion due to participation of the produced hydrogen in the reverse water- gas shift reaction (RWGS). 2 + 2+ 2        (2) In recent years, a large variety of metal oxide catalysts have been explored in propane ODH with CO2 with dispersed chromium oxide species to show great potential as active sites towards high conversion and selectivity. XANES and XPS results for spent catalysts have shown that during the reaction process9-11, Cr6+ undergoes a rapid reduction to Cr3+/Cr2+, which is crucial for catalytic activity12-16. With CO2 being a soft oxidant,it was found that reduced Cr species can be partially re-oxidized to higher oxidative states. Although promising initial propylene yield was achieved, Cr-based catalysts suffer from severe and rapid deactivation within a short time, regardless of sample preparation, reaction conditions and reactor design. The proposed reasons behind the severe deactivation encompassing potential coking11, 13, 17-18, collapse of catalyst mesoporous structure17, agglomeration of reduced Cr to Cr2O319, etc. In addition, Zhang et al. have suggested the a.Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey. Email: gt241@soe.rutgers.edu Electronic Supplementary Information (ESI) available: See DOI: 10.1039/x0xx00000x Page 1 of 11 Catalysis Science & Technology Catalysis Science & Technology Accepted Manuscript Published on 01 June 2020. Downloaded by Uppsala University on 6/2/2020 9:23:35 AM.
View Article Online
DOI: 10.1039/D0CY00586J
reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III)/Cr(II) as the main reason behind deactivation20.
Pioneering work by the research group of JG Chen has provided molecular level understanding on light alkane CO2 assisted ODH over non-precious metal (Fe-Ni) and precious metal (Fe-Pt, Ni- Pt) over CeO221-26. Recently, the effect of oxide supports was also investigated by the same research group highlighting the CeO2 as the most promising support26 due to its ability to activate CO2 via direct C=O bond scission. Olefin selectivity was found to depend on competitive reaction pathways such as ODH, reverse water gas shift as well as alkane dry reforming that can be tuned via rational selection of the bimetallic composition of active sites. DFT calculations suggested that Fe- Ni surface favors C-H bond scissoring while Pt-determined surface favors C-C cleavage. Additional evidence from EDS and TGA of spent Fe-Ni catalyst deactivation showed small regions of higher Fe content as compared to fresh catalyst thus excluding coking as the main deactivation reason.
In this work, we report a series of Fe doped CeO2 as catalysts that show enhanced stability and promising catalytic performance for the propane oxidative dehydrogenation using CO2 as soft oxidant. The well-reported oxygen mobility and oxygen storage capacity (OSC) of ceria based catalysts sets the foundation and main hypothesis of this work towards the formation of stable surface active sites27-28. To that end, we introduce Fe3+, which is proved to be active for propane dehydrogenation23, 29-30 as well as CO2 activation21, 23, 31, into ceria lattice with a series of Fe/Ce molar ratios.
Experimental Materials and synthesis of catalysts Ce(NO3)36H2O (99.99%) and Fe(NO3)39H2O (99.95%) were purchased from Sigma Aldrich and used without further purification. A series of Fe-doped ceria materials as bimetallic oxide catalyst (xFeCeO2T, x indicates the molar percentage of Fe over Ce atoms; T indicates the calcination temperature in degree Celsius) were prepared batchwise via a co-precipitation method, as reported elsewhere32-34. In a typical synthesis, pre- calculated amount of precursor solutions was mixed and heated up to 343K under stirring. NH4OH (Sigma Aldrich 30%) was added dropwise as precipitating agent by elevating solution pH value. Mixed precursor solution was kept stirring for 1 hour when pH adjusted around 7-8. Additional ammonium solution was added dropwise until pH reached 10.5. The mixture was kept at 343K for 24 hours. The precipitation mixture was then filtered, washed thoroughly with 1L DI water and 200ml pure ethanol, and then dried at 110C overnight.
Determination of calcination temperature Calcination temperature is crucial for phase transformation and crystalline growth, as well as removal of surface hydroxyl groups and possible carbon-based organics. Fe-doped ceria from the same synthesis batch were calcined at different temperatures and characterized by BET, Raman and XRD. As shown in the Supporting Information, (Figures S1, Table S1) calcination at 600C is beneficial in the following aspects: higher specific surface area and formation of Fe-Ce solid solution rather than two separated cerianite-hematite phases is achieved. Although it has been shown in the open literature that 450C is a suitable temperature in terms of formation of Fe- Ce solid solution structure35, the actual reaction conditions (as shown later) for CO2 assisted propane ODH require higher temperature (550-600C) and as a consequence, all samples studied for catalytic tests were calcined at 600C as an optimal temperature.
Characterization methods All prepared samples were thoroughly characterized prior the catalytic performance tests in order to obtain their physicochemical properties.
BET analysis BET surface area measurements were conducted with Micromeritics TriStar 3000 (Serial # 2111) system. Typically,around 30mg of catalyst was loaded into a BET tube and degassed at 150C for 8 hours prior to BET analysis in order to completely remove chemisorbed water from sample surface.
Thirteen points were collected within 0.05 to 0.3 P/P0 with 0.02 increment.
X-ray Powder Diffraction (XRD) XRD analysis was performed with a PANalytical Philips XPert X- Ray diffractometer to determine crystallinity and phase composition. The XRD instrument is equipped with a CuKα source at 40 kV and 40 mA and angular incidence 2θ between 20 and 90 with 0.05 step and 4.0 s/step. The phase composition was analysed by whole pattern fitting (WPF) refinement 2-phase analysis with relative error R% targeted below 15%. Silicon was used as an external standard reference to determine any possible peak shift.
Raman spectroscopy Raman spectra of the samples were collected with a Horiba Scientific LabSpec HR Evolution Raman spectrometer cooled with a Synapse CCD detector (-70C). The laser line used (532nm solid-state, 80mw) was directed on the sample and focused by using a 50X long working distance objective. The power of the laser was kept at a low value to avoid overheating by using a neutral density filter (5%). The acquisition time was 30 seconds with a total of twenty accumulations.
X-ray photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) X-ray Photoelectron Spectroscopy analysis were performed with 180 double focusing hemispherical analyzer and Al-Kα X- ray monochromatic source (400mm analysis spot size). The post-reaction catalysts were sieved with 325 mesh. All samples were exposed to air in a sufficient long time before analysis.
Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy (STEM) Both the imaging and electron energy loss (EEL) data were acquired by a Nion UltraSTEMTM 100. The microscope was operated at 60 kV with a probe convergence semi-angle of 35 mrad and an energy loss collection semi-angle of 34 mrad. The EEL spectrum image (SI) data was processed using Hyperspy1, a python-based microscopy analysis package. After background removal, the intensity of each element in the SI data was normalized to its maximum value in the SI map such that one can visualize the spatial distribution of the elements in the acquired area.
Page 2 of 11 Catalysis Science & Technology Catalysis Science & Technology Accepted Manuscript Published on 01 June 2020. Downloaded by Uppsala University on 6/2/2020 9:23:35 AM.
View Article Online
DOI: 10.1039/D0CY00586J
Catalytic performance test The catalytic activity was evaluated in a fixed bed quartz tube reactor (4mm ID) packed with 200mg catalyst diluted in 1000 mg of quartz sand (ACROS Organics 40-100 mesh). Reactants co- feed consists of propane (Airgas, 50% in nitrogen), CO2 (Airgas, BD) and N2 (Airgas, UHP). The reactant mixture was fed into the reactor (Scheme 1) with a flowrate varying from 10 to 30mL/min with 5% propane and 5% carbon dioxide in balancing nitrogen, unless otherwise stated.  The catalyst was preheated in oxygen (Airgas, UHP) with 5K/min until the desired reaction temperature and kept in the same gas environment for 30mins to ensure the presence of fully oxidized catalyst. The catalysts were evaluated for the ODH reaction in the temperature range of 450 to 600C and atmospheric pressure. The outlet stream was analysed with an in-line microGC (Agilent 490) equipped with MS5A column (for CH4, CO and H2) and PoraPlot Q column (for CO2, C2H4, C2H6, C3H6, C3H8). Calculations of reactant conversion, selectivity and yield to main product and by- products were estimated as follow:38 = , 38  , 38 , 38 × 100% 36 = 36 , 38  , 38 × 100% =
3 , 38  , 38 × 100% = 38 × 36 Results and discussion Structural implications of Fe-doped CeO2 catalysts X-ray diffractograms of the various Fe-doped ceria materials are shown in Figure 1. Upon calcination at 600C, all the materials show that cerianite is the main crystalline phase (reference cerianite phase lines are also included). As compared to the


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do the reducibility and support materials of Fe oxide-based catalysts influence their performance in CO2-ODHP reactions, and what insights does this provide into the proposed reaction mechanism and the optimization of catalytic systems for this process?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 