I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


All-electron study of the electronic properties of quartz with Al substitutional impurity
A. Continenza and A. Di Pomponio
Istituto Nazionale di Fisica della Materia (INFM), Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita degli studi di LAquila, I-67010 Coppito, LAquila, Italy Received 28 May 1996!
An aluminum defect in quartz has been studied by means of all-electron calculations based on the full- potential linearized-augmented-plane-wave method. A comparative study of alumina, pure quartz, and Al- substituted quartz shows that the Al impurity introduces levels between the bonding and nonbonding states of pure SiO 2 a quartz; these features are shown to derive from the formation of the Al-O chemical bond. The dangling bond in the @AlO4) 1/2#2 unit is evenly shared among the four oxygen atoms adjacent to the defect,and no bias of the charge density around the impurity is observed. A planar averaged potential energy curve for a light carrier ion e.g., Li 1, H 1), trapped in an optical channel of the defective quartz has been determined as a function of its location with respect to the aluminum position. @S0163-182996!01243-X#
I. INTRODUCTION
In recent years intrinsic and extrinsic defects have been extensively studied in both crystalline and amorphous SiO 2, due to the great technological importance of this com- pound. In fact modern research is investigating the properties of materials designed to fulfill the requirements of sophisti- cated applications. The main interest is focused on point de- fects, localized near the sites of the constituent atoms of chemically pure silica.110 One of the most important defects in natural and hydrothermally grown synthetic quartz5,11 is represented by Al 31 substituting for Si 41.510 The resulting charge imbalance is compensated for either by an interstitial alkali ion M 1 where M5Li, Na, or K!, by a proton H 1 or by a hole h1 trapped at an oxygen atom, adjacent to the aluminum. These charge compensators are located in the large empty channels along the z axis, and form Al31-M 1, Al-OH2, and Al31-h1centers, which can be observed by means of various experimental techniques: mechanical loss measurements have been performed to study the Al31-M 1 center,6 while infrared absorption7 and electron- paramagnetic-resonance EPR! Refs. 8 and 12! detected Al-OH2 and Al31-h 1 centers, respectively.
Most of quantum-mechanical or quantum-chemical calcu- lations of the electronic properties of defective SiO 2 are based on semiempirical methods, frequently restricted to cluster models of limited size.3,4 On the other hand, numer- ous solid-state calculations on point defects based on classi- cal force fields9 exist: unfortunately they do not permit elec- tronic structure investigations.
In the present work we study the modifications of the electronic properties of a quartz the SiO 2 polymorph stable at ambient conditions! induced by the presence of a substi- tutional neutral Al impurity in the host lattice. A theoretical investigation is performed by means of ab initio quantum- mechanical calculations based on the full-potential linearized-augmented-plane-wave FLAPW! method.13 We adopt a supercell method, which permits us straightfor- wardly to exploit the tools implemented in band-structure calculations. The advantage of this approach is to overcome most of the problems related to the use of limited clusters,since it permits us to describe the crystalline field correctly.
We examine the electronic structure of the defective sys- tem, comparing our results with those related to chemically pure a quartz at room pressure, obtained in a previous study,14 in order to understand the significant changes in- duced by the presence of the extrinsic point defect. In par- ticular, impurity states are observed between bonding and nonbonding states of pure SiO 2, which can be related to the formation of the Al-O bond. In this regard, we obtained in- sights from a parallel study of a-Al2O3, whose relevant re- sults are also preliminarily discussed in the present work. An accurate analysis of the charge density in the neighborhood of the Al impurity suggested an unpreferential share of the dangling bond among the four oxygens bound to the defect.
Finally, we were able to determine a planar averaged poten- tial energy-curve which could be experienced by a light car- rier ion moving along an optical channel of a defective quartz sample.
II. COMPUTATIONAL DETAILS
A. Structural details
We considered a supercell containing 18 atoms twice as many as the unit cell of a quartz!: five Si, one neutral Al which substitutes for one neutral silicon! and 12 O atoms.
The formula unit of the resulting system is: SixAl12xO2,where x5 5
6. We preserved the hexagonal shape of the unit
cell of a quartz,15,16 doubling it along the crystallographic z axis. The symmetry subgroup contains only two opera- tions: the identity and the twofold rotation around the crys- tallographic x axis; ten atoms are independent for symmetry:three silicon, one aluminum, and six oxygen atoms. In Table I we list the complete set of structural data used for our calculations, and in Fig. 1 we show the supercell of the de- fective system.
A detailed description of the a-Al2O3structure was given by Batra,17 Lewis, Schwarzenback,and Flack,18 and Megaw,19 and can be also found in Ref. 20. In the present calculations we adopted the hexagonal setting of the unit cell, containing six formula units, and we used the structural
PHYSICAL REVIEW B
15 NOVEMBER 1996-I
VOLUME 54, NUMBER 19
54 0163-1829/96/5419!/136877!/$10.00 13 687 1996 The American Physical Society parameters of Wyckoff21 Table II!. In Fig. 2a! we show the unit cell of a alumina. As can be noted, the structure of corundum is quite different from that of a quartz @Fig. 2b!#.
This is a result of the chemical bond of the two compounds,as will be discussed below.
B. Computational parameters
Our ab initio calculations are based on the FLAPW method, within density-functional theory22 in the local- density approximation, as parametrized by Hedin and Lundqvist.23 The muffin-tin radius was chosen to be R 5 1.5 and 1.77 a.u. for all atomic types in defective quartz and a-Al2O3,respectively. We used a cutoff KmaxR56.3 in both systems,resulting in about 1900 and 1350 LAPW basis functions for Al-substituted quartz and a alumina, respectively.
The self-consistency of the Si 5/6Al 1/6O 2 system was achieved using nine special k points24 for the integration in the irreducible wedge of the Brillouin zone IBZ!: this set is equivalent to the one used in the calculations of a quartz14 and a alumina. Si and Al (3s, 3p) and O (2s, 2p) orbitals were treated variationally as valence states, in the scalar rela- tivistic approximation. For an accurate description of the electronic density of states DOS! the Hamiltonian was di- agonalized at 40 k points in the IBZ within the linear tetra- hedron method.25
III. RESULTS
A. Electronic properties
In this section we discuss the modifications of the elec- tronic properties induced by the presence of the substitu- tional defect,comparing the results of the defective Si5/6Al1/6O2) structure with those of perfect a quartz14 and a alumina.20 In Fig. 3 the calculated density of states of the defective system is reported, while in Fig. 4 we plot those for SiO 2 and a-Al2O3, as reference. In order to make the comparison between different DOSs easier, we labeled the main features using equal numbers.
Comparing Fig. 3 with Fig. 4a!, we can easily recognize many similarities: the states at higher binding energy labels A1 and B1) are the O 2s states, those at intermediate ener- gies (A3 and B3) are mainly O 2p bonding states; and those
FIG. 1. A perspective view of four adjacent supercells of
Si5/6Al1/6O2 defective system. Black circles label O, gray circles Si,and white circles Al atoms.
FIG. 2. A perspective view of the hexagonal unit cells of a
alumina a! and a quartz b!. Symbols used are as in Fig. 1. In b! eight adjacent unit cells are reported in order to show the connec- tions among SiO 4 tetrahedra more clearly.
TABLE I. Unit-cell constants a, c in Å! and fractional coordi- nates of atoms in the asymmetric unit of Si5/6Al1/6O2 defective sys- tem. a
4.916
c
10.8108
Atom x y z Si1
0.4697
0.0000
0.0000
Si2
0.5303
0.5303
0.1667
Si3
0.5303
0.5303
0.6667
Al
0.4697
0.0000
0.5000
O1
0.4135
0.2669
0.0596
O2
0.7331
0.1466
0.3929
O3
0.2669
0.4135
0.2738
O4
0.4135
0.2669
0.5596
O5
0.7331
0.1466
0.8929
O6
0.2669
0.4135
0.7738
TABLE II. Unit-cell constants a, c in Å! and atomic fractional coordinates of a-Al2O3 in the hexagonal setting from Ref. 21. a
4.763
c
13.003
x(O)
0.3060
z(Al)
0.3470
13 688 54
A. CONTINENZA AND A. DI POMPONIO
close to the valence band, separated by a forbidden energy range from the former, are O 2p nonbonding pz-like orbitals.
On the other hand, the major variations induced by the Al impurity are represented by i! the partial closing of the for- bidden energy range between O bonding and nonbonding states @from -5.0 to -4.0 eV; A4 in Fig. 3a!#; and ii! a peak located at about 216.7 eV A2!. Some minor modifications can be noted in the bonding and nonbonding (A3 and A5,respectively! DOS features, expecially near the upper (25.0 eV! and lower (23.8 eV! edges, respectively.The projected density of states PDOS! can now tell us the origin of these extra features induced by the defect. Let us look, in particular, at the data for Al Fig. 3! and for the oxygen atoms farthest fromand nearest toAl see Table III!: namely, O1 and O4 atoms, respectively. The observed extra peaks are typical impurity states, originated by the for- mation of the Al-O4 chemical bond. The main Al component is, in fact, located in the energy range from ' 25.0 to
24.0 eV, and it is made of 3p bonding orbitals. In addition,
a relevant O4 component is found in the same energy range:it corresponds to 2p bonding orbitals involved in the Al-O4 bond. Moreover, the position of O4 2p bonding states is shifted toward lower binding-energy values, with a modifi- cation of the shape of the corresponding PDOS features.
On the other hand, the electronic states related to O1 which is a bridging oxygen between two silicon atoms; Table III! are substantially unaffected by the presence of Al defect, as could be noted by the comparison of the O1 PDOS Fig. 3! with the oxygen atom in a quartz:14 only some mi- nor differences seem to be introduced by the impurity.
FIG. 3. Calculated total a! and projected density of states fol-
lowing panels! of Si5/6Al1/6O2 system. The valence-band maximum is taken as the zero of the energy scale. Solid dashed! lines indicate s (p) states.
FIG. 4. Calculated density of states of a quartz a! and
a Al 2O 3 . b! The valence-band maximum is taken as the zero of the energy scale.
TABLE III. Nearest neighbors of oxygen atoms and minimum distance of oxygen and silicon atoms from the aluminum substitu- tional impurity. Equivalent sites obtained from the application of the space group operation symmetry! of the atoms listed in the second column must also be taken into account. d is the minimum distance in Å! of a given atom from Al. Symbols are as in Table I.
Atom Nearest neighbors d
O1
Si1, Si2
4.98
O2
Si3, Al
1.61
O3
Si2, Si3
3.52
O4
Si3, Al
1.60
O5
Si1, Si2
4.39
O6
Si2, Si3
3.90
Si1
5.41
Si2
4.37
Si3
3.06
54 13 689 ALL-ELECTRON STUDY OF THE ELECTRONIC . . .
Let us look now at the projected DOS diagrams for Si1 and Si3 atoms Table III!, reported in Fig. 3. We note that Si1 is not directly bonded to Al, and that the features of its PDOS components Fig. 3! are substantially unaffected and are therefore very similar to those in pure a quartz.14 On the other hand, some modifications are shown by the Si3 atom,located at the minimum distance from Al Table III!. The energy levels between 25.0 and 24.0 eV are due to the interaction with the impurity, and are related to the Al-O4-Si3 bond. It is interesting to note that the dis- tance of these atoms from the point defect plays an important role: almost all features due to the impurity, present in Si3 DOS have disappeared in Si1. Now we can observe that the minimum distance between two Al atoms is ;4.9 Å, and that this value is rougly in between the Si3Al and Si1Al distances (;3.1 and ;5.4 Å, respectively!. Therefore, since the effects on the electronic states due to the presence of the impurity tend to disappear as the interatomic distance Si-Al increase, the PDOS for Si1 is nearly identical to the PDOS in pure a quartz!, we can infer that the interactions between two adjacent defects are nearly negligible. This confirms that the size of our system is, in first approximation, large enough to significantly minimize the interactions of defects located in neighboring cells.This preliminary analysis of the DOS indicates that the impurity states of our system have a prevalent localized na- ture: they are due to short-range interactions related to the formation of the chemical bond between the substitutional impurity and the atoms of the original host lattice. As already noted, these states are made of O 2p and Al 3p bonding orbitals and they produce a partial closing of the forbidden energy range present in pure a quartz. A similar situation is present in a-Al2O3. In fact, in this compound two relevant differences can be noted in the valence band with respect to a quartz: i! the absence of the forbidden energy range be- tween bonding and nonbonding O p states; and ii! the larger extension of the topmost portion of the valence band in SiO 2 @;9.5 eV; features B3 and B5 of Fig. 4a!# compared to a-Al2O3 @;7.5 eV; C3 and C5 DOS regions in Fig. 4b!#.Now let us consider the charge-density contour maps. In Fig. 5 we plot the valence charge density of Si 5/6Al 1/6O 2,projected in the Al-O4-Si3 @Fig. 5, panel a!# and in the Si1-O1-Si2 @Fig. 5b!# bonding plane, compared to the charge density of a quartz, projected in the plane cutting the Si-O-Si angle @Fig. 5c!#. The charge accumulation along the bonding directions in Fig. 5a! shows only a slight asymme- try along Al-O4 and Si3-O4 bonding directions. It is inter- esting to observe the partial electronic depletion along the Al-O4 direction, due to the impurity which has one electron less than the host silicon atoms. In Fig. 5b!, the charge density around the oxygen site does not show any distortions and it is qualitatively very similar to the valence charge den- sity of a quartz Fig. 5c!.Let us now look at how the different groups of valence states contribute to the charge density. In Fig. 6 we plot the charge density of the Si5/6Al1/6O2 structure, corresponding to the states labeled A3 and A4 in Fig. 3 @panels a! and b!,respectively# and those labeled A5 in Fig. 3 @panel c!#, pro- jected in the Al-O4-Si3 bonding plane. In Figs. 6a! and 6b!,the distortions of the charge density appear clearly; the bond- ing character of the impurity states whose corresponding charge density shows a relevant asymmetry along Al-O4 and Si3-O4 directions is also evident. On the other hand, the highest valence states @Fig. 6, panel c!# exihibit the familiar SiO 2 nonbonding nature: the variations with respect to the perfect crystal are here less drastic e.g., the electronic deple- tion around the oxygen site is almost irrelevant!; neverthe- less, a slight asymmetry seems to affect the local charge distribution.
B. Dangling bond around the Al site
and the average potential curve As discussed in Sec. III A, the charge depletion around Al atomic site is due to the reduced valence of the substitutional impurity with respect to the silicon atoms: this results in a dangling bond located in the @AlO4) 1/2#2 unit. An accurate analysis of the charge density around the defect shows that the dangling bond is evenly shared among the four oxygen atoms close to the Al impurity. This can be deduced by the electronic charge deformation map, i.e., the difference be- tween the charge densities of the defective and pure solid,projected in the corresponding bonding planes. In Fig. 7 we plot the charge-density difference betweenSi5/6Al1/6O2 and a quartz, projected in the Al-O4-Si3 plane which also cor- responds to the Si-O-Si asymmetric bonding plane in pure quartz. It is possible to observe the charge depletion around
FIG. 5. Valence charge density of Si5/6Al1/6O2system @panels a!
and b!#, and a quartz c!, projected in the Al-O4-Si3, Si1-O1-Si2,and Si-O-Si bonding planes, respectively. Lines of equal value are separated by 5e/Vq , where Vq is the volume of the a-quartz unit cell. 13 690 54
A. CONTINENZA AND A. DI POMPONIO
Al site, in a spherical region whose mean radius is about
1.25R. This effect is partially reduced along the Al-O bond-
ing direction, due to the charge accumulation localized at the oxygen site. The most relevant feature is the unpreferential share of the dangling bond: this is due to the almost ideal tetrahedral coordination, which is not compatible with any directional bias of the charge density. This result indicates that the relaxation process will involve atomic displacements around the impurity that would destroy the local symmetry and cause a rearrangement of atoms belonging to many co- ordination shells. The correct treatment of such processes is a very demanding computational task and is beyond the aim of the present calculation.
Additional insights can be obtained considering the planar average of the charge density and the corresponding poten- tial, performed on planes perpendicular to the crystallo- graphic z axis. In Fig. 8a! we show the macroscopic average difference Dr(z) of the charge densities in defective and pure a quartz averaged on planes perpendicular to the z axis,calculated according to Baroni, Resta, and Baldereschi.29 The electronic charge depletion around the impurity is evident, while we must note that the charge difference is already vanishing at the positions of the nearest Si atoms.
This further confirm that the effects produced by the impu- rity are substantially localized and that the interactions be- tween two adjacent Al atoms are nearly negligible.
Solving the Poisson equation for the macroscopic average charge density r(z) for each compound, it is possible to determine the planar average of the electrostatic potential in each cell.29 In Fig. 8b! the macroscopic planar average of the potential for defective and pure quartz is shown. For both materials the macroscopic average potential can represent an
FIG. 6. Charge density of Si 5/6Al 1/6O 2 corresponding to the
intermediate states: a! (210.0 to 25.0 eV, label A3, Fig. 3!, b! (25.0 to 24.0 eV, label A4, Fig. 3!, and c! 23.0 eV to valence- band maximum, label A5, Fig. 3!. Charge densities are projected in the Al-O4-Si3 bonding plane. Lines of equal value are separated by 5e/Vq .
FIG.
7.
Difference between the charge densities of Si 5/6Al 1/6O 2 and of a quartz, projected in the Al-O4-Si3 and O-Si-O bonding planes, respectively. Lines of equal value are sepa- rated by 2.5e/Vq . Long dashed, short dashed, and solid lines cor- respond to negative, zero, and positive charge-density differences,respectively.
FIG. 8. a! Difference between the macroscopic average of
r v(z) for Si 5/6Al 1/6O 2 and a quartz. b! Macroscopic planar aver- age of the potential of the defective solid line! and pure dashed line! quartz. Average quantities are computed on planes perpen- dicular to the crystallographic z axis. 54 13 691 ALL-ELECTRON STUDY OF THE ELECTRONIC approximate estimate of the potential experienced by a light carrier ion moving along an open channel without perturbing the host lattice. This result may be very useful to understand the ionic transport phenomena,9,10,2628 if those can be de- scribed by an Arrhenius-like equation. In fact an alkali-ion M 1 or a proton H 1 present in a real defective quartz sample may move along the large open channels parallel to the crys- tallographic z axis when a proper electrical field is applied.
The ionic mobility process is controlled in first approxima- tion by the average planar potential, as that reported in Fig. 8b! solid line!. Of course, this simplified description is valid if the carrier ion is sufficiently light e.g., Li 1, H 1) as it does not perturb significantly the host lattice and if the potential shape on the x-y plane can be well represented by its average value. On the other hand, the average potential curve of pure a quartz @Fig. 8b!, dashed line# could repre- sent the potential experienced by an ion moving along a channel far away from the Al atomic position, as experimen- tally observed in defective X-irradiated quartz samples, in which Al 31 is electrically neutralized by a hole so that charge carrier ions can freely move.10 The calculated average potential curve shows a two-minimum well centered on the Al position, in agreement with some model calculations and with transport measurements for Na 1 ions.10 Of course, a comparison with the experimental data is possible only on a qualitative basis as far as the overall shape of the potential is concerned, since we averaged out variations on the xy plane. Moreover, the size and shape of the effective potential barrier are expected10 to vary, through screening and size- dependent mechanisms, with the chemical species of the alkali-ion considered.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
We presented results of a FLAPW investigation of the electronic properties of quartz with an Al impurity substitut- ing for a Si atom. The analysis shows that the most signifi- cant changes induced by the defect are represented by the occurrence of impurity states, prevalently located in the en- ergy range between 25.0 and 24.0 eV, corresponding to p-like Al and O bonding orbitals. The variations are strictly localized and involve the electronic structure around host atoms which are directly bonded to the extrinsic defect. On the other hand, atoms sufficiently far away from the impurity are unaffected by the presence of Al. Moreover, the size of our system seems to be sufficiently large to minimize the interactions between neighboring defects.
Finally, an averaged potential-energy curve for a light carrier ion e.g., Li 1, H 1), trapped in an optical channel of the defective quartz and which does not perturb the host lattice during its motion, has been determined as a function of its location with respect to the Al position. This can rep- resent an approximate estimate of the potential controlling ionic transport processes in a real defective quartz sample.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the Mars-van Krevelen mechanism operate in oxide-catalyzed oxidation reactions, and what is the significance of the energy required for oxygen vacancy formation (ΔEv) in determining both the catalytic activity and the oxidizing ability of the oxide surface?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 