<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information on the primary challenges in current propylene production methods or how oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues. However, it does mention that propylene production is significant due to its numerous uses and that the demand for propene is growing. The literature also suggests that selective processes dedicated solely to propene synthesis, such as propane dehydrogenation, will gain significance with time. It further states that concerns connected to meeting demand for propene without simultaneously decreasing production of remaining valuable products favor the intensification of fundamental research, including the development of a new selective process of obtaining propene from propane that could replace the currently used propane dehydrogenation process. The literature also notes that an attractive alternative for the traditional PDH is propane oxidative dehydrogenation in the presence of O2 (ODH) or propane dehydrogenation in the presence of CO2 (CO2-PDH), as these processes utilize a co-reactant that either removes PDH thermodynamic limits or increases production through hydrogen binding in consecutive reactions. Typically, in these processes, per-pass conversion of propane and yield of propene are higher than in commercial non-oxidative dehydrogenation. Moreover, due to large scale propene production, the process can be an attractive way for chemical CO2 utilisation, because in addition to propene, hydrogen and carbon monoxide (syngas) are produced as the main products.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供当前丙烯生产方法的主要挑战或丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)如何解决这些问题的具体信息。但是，它确实提到丙烯生产是重要的，因为丙烯有多种用途，而且对丙烯的需求正在增长。文献还建议，由于丙烯需求的增加，专门用于丙烯合成的工艺，如丙烷脱氢，将变得越来越重要。它进一步指出，由于需要在不同时减少其他有价值产品生产的情况下满足丙烯需求，这促使了基础研究的加强，包括开发从丙烷中获得丙烯的新选择性工艺，以取代目前使用的丙烷脱氢工艺。文献还指出，传统的PDH的一个有吸引力的替代方案是在O2(ODH)或CO2(CO2-PDH)存在下进行的丙烷氧化脱氢，因为这些过程利用了共反应物，可以消除PDH的热力学限制，或者通过在连续反应中结合氢来增加产量。通常，在这些过程中，每通过一次的丙烷转化率和丙烯产量都高于商业非氧化脱氢。此外，由于大规模的丙烯生产，该过程可以成为化学CO2利用的一种有吸引力的方式，因为除了丙烯之外，氢气和一氧化碳(合成气)作为主要产品被生产出来。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
