<quotes>

[1] "The beneficial effect of Ga on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity has been observed whether Ga ions are introduced by impregnation [16,26,28,29,33,35] or ion exchange techniques [15,18,22,23,32]."
[2] "The addition of metal species to H-ZSM5 channels increase aromatic turnover rates and actually decrease cracking turnover rates (Fig. 3)."
[3] "The initial rate of propene formation is much higher on Ga/H-ZSM5 and Zn/H-ZSM5 compared to H-ZSM5, but isotopic evidence from C3Hs/C3D 8 mixtures show that C-H bond activation rate depends weakly on the presence of Ga and Zn."
[4] "Reactions over Na-ZSM5 confirm that C-H bond activation occurs predominantly on BrOnsted acid sites."
[5] "Ga and Zn sites increase the rate of propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites that activate C-H bonds, allowing acid sites to turnover without the formation of cracking products."
[6] "Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage, as all-hydrogen (He)."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts involves the activation of propane by hydride abstraction from the reacting alkane by adsorbed carbenium ions (bimolecular) or by addition of protons to alkenes to form a carbenium ion (monomolecular). The addition of Ga ions to H-ZSM5 channels increases the rate of propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites that activate C-H bonds, allowing acid sites to turnover without the formation of cracking products. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage, as all-hydrogen (H2). This mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, as the beneficial effect of Ga on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity has been observed whether Ga ions are introduced by impregnation or ion exchange techniques.
2.Compared to the carbenium mechanism, the alkyl mechanism involves the activation of propane by hydride abstraction or proton addition, rather than the direct protonation of propane to form carbonium ions. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) because it involves the breaking of a strong C-H bond, which is energetically unfavorable. Reactions over Na-ZSM5 confirm that C-H bond activation occurs predominantly on BrOnsted acid sites, supporting the alkyl mechanism.
3.The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, as the beneficial effect of Ga on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity has been observed whether Ga ions are introduced by impregnation or ion exchange techniques. The addition of Ga ions to H-ZSM5 channels increases the rate of propene formation by removing H-atoms from acid sites that activate C-H bonds, allowing acid sites to turnover without the formation of cracking products. Ga and Zn act as 'portholes' and catalyze the recombinative desorption of H-atoms, formed from acid-catalyzed C-H bond cleavage, as all-hydrogen (H2).

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在基于镓的催化剂上，丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应的烷基机制涉及通过吸附的碳正离子从反应的烷烃中抽离氢化物(双分子)或通过向烯烃添加质子形成碳正离子(单分子)来激活丙烷。将Ga离子添加到H-ZSM5通道中通过从激活C-H键的酸位点去除H原子，使酸位点在不形成裂解产物的情况下周转，从而增加了丙烯的形成速率。Ga和Zn充当“端口”，催化由酸催化C-H键断裂形成的H原子的重组解吸，形成所有氢气(H2)。无论Ga离子是通过浸渍还是离子交换技术引入，Ga对烷烃芳构化速率和选择性的有益影响都已被观察到，因此这种机制适用于不同的Ga物种结构。
2.与碳正离子机制相比，烷基机制涉及通过氢化物抽离或质子添加来激活丙烷，而不是直接质子化丙烷形成碳正离子。CH活化步骤被提议为速率决定步骤(RDS)，因为它涉及断裂强C-H键，这在能量上是不利的。在Na-ZSM5上的反应确认C-H键活化主要发生在BrOnsted酸位点，支持烷基机制。
3.无论Ga离子是通过浸渍还是离子交换技术引入，Ga对烷烃芳构化速率和选择性的有益影响都已被观察到，因此烷基机制适用于不同的Ga物种结构。将Ga离子添加到H-ZSM5通道中通过从激活C-H键的酸位点去除H原子，使酸位点在不形成裂解产物的情况下周转，从而增加了丙烯的形成速率。Ga和Zn充当“端口”，催化由酸催化C-H键断裂形成的H原子的重组解吸，形成所有氢气(H2)。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
