<quotes>

[1] "The beneficial effect of Ga on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity has been observed whether Ga ions are introduced by impregnation [16,26,28,29,33,35] or ion exchange techniques [15,18,22,23,32]."
[2] "The addition of metal species to H-ZSM5 channels increase aromatic turnover rates and actually decrease cracking turnover rates (Fig. 3)."
[3] "The first two hypotheses require the concurrent presence of acid sites and metal cations during reactions for light alkane dehydrocyclodimerization to occur with high selectivity."
[4] "The addition of metal cations also increases the deuterium content in 'unreacted' propane (Fig. 18)."
[5] "The addition of Ga and Zn increase the deuterium incorporation turnovers (Fig. 19)."
[6] "Ga and Zn species increase the rate of both H-atom recombinative desorption and of H 2 dissociative adsorption during propane dehydrocyclodimerization reactions [22,28,29,42]."
[7] "Adsorption-desorption steps,however, remain irreversible and not fully equi- librated even on Ga/H-ZSM5 and Zn/H- ZSM5."
[8] "This H-atom disposal step remains the rate-determining step for each sequential dehy- drogenation reaction required to convert propane to aromatics."
[9] "The presence of Ga species allows gas phase hydrogen to dissocia- tively adsorb and to effectively compete for surface sites, thus decreasing aromatic selectiv- ity."
[10] "The addition of 13CO2 also increases the aromatics selectivity on H-ZSM5 (Fig. 24)."
[11] "The introduction of alternate H-disposal path- ways, whether by using stoichiometric acceptors (CO, CO 2, or 0 2) or metal cations (Ga or Zn),removes the burden of hydrogen removal from other steps that form light alkanes and reduce aromatics selectivity."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The alkyl mechanism in propane dehydrogenation (PDH) reactions on gallium-based catalysts involves the activation of propane by hydride abstraction from the reacting alkane by adsorbed carbenium ions (bimolecular) or by addition of protons to alkenes to form a carbenium ion (monomolecular). The initial propene intermediate, formed by dehydrogenation of propane, undergoes acid-catalyzed chain growth reactions within zeolite channels by oligomerization or addition to C 3 + carbocations. As the alkene chain lengthens,13-scission reactions become faster and ulti- mately establish a 'quasi-equilibrated' pool of alkene intermediates with a broad size distribu- tion. These alkene intermediates continue to undergo hydrogenation-dehydrogena- tion reactions, commonly described as hydrogen transfer, in which light alkenes accept hydrogen to form alkanes. C 6 + alkenes tend to dehydro- genate and cyclize to kinetically-stable and ther- modynamically-favored aromatic products. Cracking of larger chains also occurs with the concomitant removal of hydrogen by its addi- tion to light alkene products of cracking reac- tions. The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, as the beneficial effect of Ga on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity has been observed whether Ga ions are introduced by impregnation or ion exchange techniques.

2.Compared to the carbenium mechanism, the alkyl mechanism does not involve the direct protonation of a propane molecule to form carbonium ions (C3H-). The alkyl mechanism is more consistent with the observed effects of catalyst composition on reaction rate and selectivity. The CH activation step is proposed as the rate-determining step (RDS) because the addition of metal species to H-ZSM5 channels increases aromatic turnover rates and decreases cracking turnover rates. The addition of metal cations also increases the deuterium content in 'unreacted' propane and the deuterium incorporation turnovers, indicating that metal cations increase the rate of both H-atom recombinative desorption and of H 2 dissociative adsorption during propane dehydrocyclodimerization reactions. However, adsorption-desorption steps remain irreversible and not fully equilibrated even on Ga/H-ZSM5 and Zn/H-ZSM5. This H-atom disposal step remains the rate-determining step for each sequential dehydrogenation reaction required to convert propane to aromatics.

3.The alkyl mechanism applies to different Ga species structures, as the beneficial effect of Ga on alkane aromatization rates and selectivity has been observed whether Ga ions are introduced by impregnation or ion exchange techniques. The presence of Ga species allows gas phase hydrogen to dissociatively adsorb and to effectively compete for surface sites, thus decreasing aromatic selectivity. The addition of alternate H-disposal pathways, whether by using stoichiometric acceptors (CO, CO 2, or 0 2) or metal cations (Ga or Zn), removes the burden of hydrogen removal from other steps that form light alkanes and reduce aromatics selectivity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在基于镓的催化剂上的丙烷脱氢(PDH)反应中，烷基机制涉及通过吸附的碳正离子(双分子)或通过向烯烃添加质子形成碳正离子(单分子)从反应的烷烃中抽离氢化物，以激活丙烷。最初形成的丙烯中间体通过在沸石通道内通过寡聚或添加到C3+碳正离子进行酸催化的链增长反应。随着烯烃链的增长，13-裂解反应变得更快，最终建立了一个具有广泛尺寸分布的“准平衡”烯烃中间体池。这些烯烃中间体继续进行氢化-脱氢反应，通常称为氢转移，其中轻烯烃接受氢以形成烷烃。C6+烯烃倾向于脱氢并环化为动力学稳定和热力学有利的芳香产物。较大的链的裂解也伴随着氢的去除，通过将其添加到裂解反应的轻烯烃产物中。烷基机制适用于不同的Ga物种结构，因为无论Ga离子是通过浸渍还是离子交换技术引入，Ga对烷烃芳构化速率和选择性的有益影响都已被观察到。

2.与碳正离子机制相比，烷基机制不涉及直接质子化丙烷分子以形成碳离子(C3H-)。烷基机制与催化剂组成对反应速率和选择性的影响更一致。CH活化步骤被提议为速率决定步骤(RDS)，因为向H-ZSM5通道添加金属物种会增加芳烃周转率并降低裂解周转率。添加金属阳离子还会增加“未反应”丙烷中的氘含量和氘掺入周转率，表明金属阳离子增加了丙烷脱氢过程中H-原子重组脱附和H2解吸吸附的速率。然而，吸附-脱附步骤即使在Ga/H-ZSM5和Zn/H-ZSM5上也保持不可逆且未完全平衡。这个H-原子处置步骤仍然是将丙烷转化为芳烃所需的每个连续脱氢反应的速率决定步骤。

3.烷基机制适用于不同的Ga物种结构，因为无论Ga离子是通过浸渍还是离子交换技术引入，Ga对烷烃芳构化速率和选择性的有益影响都已被观察到。Ga物种的存在允许气相氢气解离吸附并有效竞争表面位点，从而降低芳烃选择性。添加替代的H-处置途径，无论是通过使用计量受体(CO、CO2或O2)还是金属阳离子(Ga或Zn)，都可以从形成轻烷烃并降低芳烃选择性的其他步骤中去除氢去除的负担。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
