A view on the future of mixed oxide catalysts
The case of heteropolyacids (polyoxometalates)
and perovskites
Makoto Misono
Department of Environmental Chemical Engineering, Kogakuin University, Nishi-shinjuku, Tokyo 163-8677, Japan
Available online 26 March 2005
Abstract
Recent progress of mixed oxide catalysts has been surveyed brieﬂy, and future opportunities of catalytic technology are discussed, taking
for example solid heteropolyacid and perovskite catalysts, where some promising signs for the future are noted. It was stressed that much more
efforts should be directed to develop useful catalysts in practical applications, in order to accelerate the progress of catalytic science and
technology.
# 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Heteropolyacids; Polyoxometalates; Perovskites; Catalyst design; Mixed oxides
1. Introduction
The development of high-performance catalysts is still
very important for chemical technologies that supply useful
substances to the society and assist keeping the environment
healthy. However, it recently appears that the progress of
catalytic science and technology is slower and epoch-
making innovations in catalytic technology are fewer,
particularly in heterogeneous catalysts, although the number
of papers maintains a high rate of increase. The slow
progress and few innovations may be connected with each
other. In my view, a catalyst can be called a catalyst only
when it catalyzes useful reactions in practical application.
This is the same as that a technology is called a technology
when it works well in the real world. Hence, the reason
why the progress of catalytic science and technology
is recently slow is probably because sufﬁcient efforts are
not devoted to develop novel catalysts for practical
applications. We may lack more than before the collabora-
tion between fundamental and applied researches, and
probably our selections of target reactions have not been
good enough.
In the above respect, the value of R&D on practical
catalysts (these are important as described above) may be
expressed, for example, by
value ¼
I
1 þ D
(1)
where I is the impact on catalytic technology, such as
novelty, expected proﬁt, greenness, etc., and D is the dis-
tance (length of period) to the realization in the real world.
This equation is conceptual, just indicating that the value, V,
increases with the impact, I, and decreases with the distance,
D. A similar equation may be proposed for fundamental
research for practical catalysts, as well.
In this short article, the progress of mixed oxide catalysts
is surveyed focusing on heteropolyacid and perovskite
catalysts. It is also attempted to pick up several achieve-
ments
that
may
lead
to
future
innovative
catalytic
technologies and important problems to be solved by basic
research for the progress of the technologies.
My personal belief is that the breakthroughs in the design
of heterogeneous catalysts (undoubtedly for practical
applications) can be brought about by the design at the
atomic/molecular level. Although this is not an easy task,
our efforts have been devoted to construct the basis for
www.elsevier.com/locate/cattod
Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 95–100
E-mail address: misono@cc.kogakuin.ac.jp.
0920-5861/$ – see front matter # 2004 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.cattod.2004.12.010
this design by choosing crystalline heteropolyacid and
perovskite mixed oxides, as described in our recent accounts
[1–3]. Our basic concept is that mixed oxides having well
characterized structure, at least in the solid bulk, are suitable
for the catalyst design at the atomic/molecular level.
2. Solid heteropolyacid (polyoxometalates) catalysts
2.1. General remarks on solid heteroplyacid (HPA)
catalysts
Fundamentals that make possible the design of solid HPA
catalysts at the atomic/molecular level have been fairly well
established. First, several groups including our group
showed that the molecular nature of heteropolyanion is
maintained in the solid state, if necessary caution is paid,
and that their acid and redox properties can be controlled in
a regular way by changing the atomic composition.
Second, we found that the presence of hierarchical
structures (primary, secondary and tertiary structures) and
three different modes of catalysis (surface-type, pseudoli-
quid (bulk-type I), and bulk-type II) [1,4,5]. We demon-
strated that these are the indispensable basic concepts for
the understanding and design of solid HPA catalysts. For
example, due to the pseudoliquid behavior that we ﬁrst
reported in 1979 and summarized in 1987 [5], not only very
high catalytic activities are obtained, but also reaction
mechanisms
are
elucidated
at
the
molecular
level.
Recently the locations and dynamic behavior of acidic
protons have been spectroscopically clariﬁed [6,7]. In
addition, precise control of pore size was made possible for
Cs and K salts through the understanding of their
nanostructures [1,4].
There are already more than seven large-scale industrial
processes using HPA catalysts, mostly in Japan. A recent
topic in industry is that remarkable improvement was
reported for the process of ethyl acetate production
catalyzed by HPA (Showa Denko), although the plant
already started several years ago.
2.2. Acid catalysis of HPA
2.2.1. Recent progress
It has been demonstrated that the catalytic activities for
surface-type reactions are correlated proportionally to the
surface acidity and those for the reactions in pseudoliquid to
the bulk acidity [1,4]. In the former case, we found that
Cs2.5 (Cs2.5H0.5PW12O40) is much more active than the
traditional solid acids for many liquid-phase organic
reactions of surface-type and that precise control of
nanopores of acidic Cs salts brings about remarkable shape
selectivity that differentiate the molecular size of reactants
[1,4].
The followings are two recent interesting ﬁndings for
practical application of solid HPA in liquid phase. Efﬁcient
solid catalysts are very desirable in the wide range of
applications in the syntheses of ﬁne chemicals. Here, the E-
factors
(by-product/main
product
ratios
proposed
by
Sheldon) are very large (10–100), due to the multi-
step syntheses and to mass and energy consumption
during separation and puriﬁcation. An example shown
in Fig. 1 [8] demonstrates that usage of solvents is
tremendous.
2.2.1.1. Firm immobilization of Cs2.5 on silica [9]. Cs2.5
is almost insoluble in water, but after agitation during
reaction the surface layer of Cs2.5 dissolves slightly and
also partly comes off as nanoparticles into solution. In
addition, the particles of Cs2.5 are so small that their
separation by ﬁltration is difﬁcult. Recently, Okuhara
et al. found that Cs2.5 nanoparticles bound to the amino
group of a coupling reagent, 3-aminopropyltetraethoxysi-
lane (APTS), that is chemically bonded to the surface
of silica (APTS:silica = 14:86) (Fig. 2), showed only a
loss of less than 0.02% and were easily separable,
maintaining more than 90% of the catalytic activity of
Cs2.5.
2.2.1.2. Water-tolerant catalysis of Cs2.5 [10]. According
to the adsorption of water, the hydrophobicity was presumed
to be in the order of HZSM-5 (Si/Al = 628) > HZSM-5 (Si/
Al = 40) = Cs2.5 > silica–alumina. Owing to the moderate
hydrophobicity, Cs2.5 shows a high catalytic activity for
organic reactions in water like hydration of alkenes and
hydrolysis of oligosugars (Table 1).
2.2.2. Important problems and a topic
(a) Crystalline bulk HPA catalysts (without supports or
additives) are very talented catalysts for various organic
reactions. But as they show rather ‘‘strong and unique
character’’, ﬁne-tuning of acidity and choice of adequate
reaction systems (reactions themselves and reaction
conditions) are crucial.
(b) The structure and acidic properties of supported HPA
are very important for practical applications, but they
have little been clariﬁed. The control of the HPA–
M. Misono / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 95–100
96
Fig. 1. Reduction of E-factor (by-products/main product ratio) by the
optimization of synthetic route from A to B’s.
support interactions was likely the key factor for the
remarkable improvement of the ethyl acetate process
mentioned above.
(c) Another serious problems often encountered for solid
HPA catalysts are deactivation caused by by-products.
As the thermal stability is not very high, coke deposits
can hardly be removed by combustion. Control of
acidity is one possible solution. In certain reaction
systems, these problems are not serious and those
reactions have been commercialized.
(d) Other mixed oxides. Recently gas-phase Beckmann
rearrangement of caprolactam was commercialized by
Sumitomo Chemical (2003) [11], and awarded several
prizes including that of the Minister of Economy, Trade
and Industry of Japan. The process that replaces the
traditional process using concentrated sulfuric acid has
been a long-period dream of researchers in the ﬁeld of
solid acid catalysts. The fact that the dream was realized
by using ‘‘non-acidic’’ zeolite with extremely high Si/Al
ratio was unexpected. This indicates that very weak
acids can catalyze reactions that require strong acidity at
a low temperature, and will provide many future
opportunities in organic reactions catalyzed by weak
solid acids at high temperature.
2.3. Oxidation catalysis of HPA
In my previous account [2], it was stated that in spite of
extensive attempts using HPA for alkane oxidation, the
performance was considerably below the level of commer-
cialization. Regrettably, this appears still true, although
some improvements were reported recently [12]. One of the
reasons of the difﬁculty is thermal instability, particularly of
Mo-polyanions having mixed addenda atoms. Unless
outstanding breakthroughs are made for high-temperature
selective oxidation, the potential targets of research on
catalytic oxidation using HPA catalysts may be limited to the
followings [2].
(a) Reactions at low temperatures where the polyanion
structures are maintained (homogeneous and hetero-
geneous). Polyanions having novel structures and
compositions (including ﬁxation of these polyanions
on elaborate supports) have been reported for selective
oxidation in liquid phase [13].
(b) Stabilization of polyanion structure, for example, by
forming stable salts.
(c) Combination of stable polyanions and functional
counter cations.
(d) Combination
of
HPA
and
noble
metals.
Direct
synthesis of acetic acid from ethylene was industrialized
with a Pd–HPA catalyst [1]. An interesting example,
although this is not an oxidation reaction, is that the
presence of acidic proton dramatically changes the
reaction path in the reaction of a mixture of n-butane and
hydrogen; Pt on Cs3 (non-acidic) shows mainly
hydrogenolysis, while selective hydroisomerization to
isobutane takes place over Pt on Cs2.5 (acidic) [1]
(Scheme 1).
M. Misono / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 95–100
97
Fig. 2. Cs2.5 nanoparticles ﬁrmly ﬁxed on silica via a coupling reagent (APTS).
Table 1
Catalytic activities of solid acids for acid-catalyzed reactions in excess
water [10]
Catalyst
Hydration of
2,3-dimethyl-2-butene
Hydrolysis of
oligosugars
Cs2.5
10.5
51.0
HZSM-5 (Si/Al = 40)
5.7
1.7
SO4–ZrO2
0
0
H-mordenite
0
0
Silica–alumina
0
0
Naﬁon-H
1.8
52.0
Scheme 1. Contrast between the reactions of a mixture of n-butane and
hydrogen catalyzed by Pd/Cs3 (non-acidic) and Pd/Cs2.5 (acidic).
3. Perovskite catalysts
3.1. Catalyst design based on perovskites
We previously proposed basic principles for the design of
perovskite catalysts [14]. Later, we added an additional
principle (i.e. (e)) [3,15]:
(a) Selection of transition element at B-site of perovskite
structure (ABO3), that primarily determines the cata-
lytic behavior.
(b) Valency control of B-site elements (and vacancy control
at B site and of oxygen). Redox property very much
depends on these values.
(c) Synergistic effect of two different B site ions. For
example, Cu and Mn located at B-site in 1:1 atomic ratio
exhibits a very high catalytic activity for CO oxidation.
(d) Enhancement of surface area by forming thin layers or
nanoparticles
of
perovskite
on
support
materials
[16,17]. Perovskites prepared by the ordinary methods
usually have very small surface areas.
(e) Combination of noble metals with perovskites. This will
be described below.
3.2. Applications of perovskite catalysts
To my knowledge, perovskite catalyst was commercia-
lized for the ﬁrst time for the catalytic removal of odor and
smoke from cooking table in the kitchen [18]. Recently,
according to the principle (e) of catalyst design described in
the previous section, a new automobile catalyst was
successfully developed by Daihatsu Motor [19] (see below).
Other promising applications are the oxygen-reducing
electrode of fuel cell and diesel particulate ﬁlter [20]. In
spite of low surface area and high sensitivity to SOx,
perovskites can ﬁnd novel applications. Teraoka’s group of
Kyushu University is developing a wide range of R&D
activities aiming at practical usage of perovskite catalysts, in
a CREST Project of Environmental Nano-catalysts [20]. The
key is to understand the character of perovskites and apply
them to appropriate applications.
4. Pd combined with mixed oxides
4.1. Interactions between noble metals and metal oxides
under oxidizing conditions
Behavior of noble metals supported on oxide supports has
extensively been investigated. However, most works were
devoted to that in reducing atmosphere like hydrogenation
and hydroisomerization. Important concepts such as ligand
versus ensemble effect, geometric versus electronic factor,
and support effects (e.g., electron-donating or withdrawing
of supports) are all concerned with noble metals in the
reduced state. In contrast, knowledge on the behavior of
noble metals in oxidizing atmosphere is very limited,
although this is very necessary, for example, for the
development of practical automobile catalysts, wet oxida-
tion of waste water and catalytic combustion.
4.2. Pd-zeolite
We discovered remarkable contrasts between Pd on
HZSM-5 and Pd on NaZSM-5 for the reduction of NO in
NO–CH4–O2 mixture: the former is very active for both
reduction of NO and oxidation of methane, but the latter is
active only for methane oxidation, while the rate of methane
oxidation is almost the same for both catalysts [21]. The
reason was that isolated Pd ion in HZSM-5 is active for NO
reduction and is stabilized in oxidizing atmosphere, because
Pd metal clusters can be redispersed to Pd ions under the
oxidizing conditions [22]. On the other hand, Pd metal
clusters on NaZSM-5 is only oxidized to PdO particles under
the oxidizing conditions. This behavior is illustrated in
Fig. 3. The oxidation of Pd cluster on HZSM-5 proceeds in
two steps as shown by Eq. (2). The behavior of Pd on HZSM-
5 very much resembles what we found a long time ago for
Cu on hydroxyapatite; Cu cluster (on the surface) ! CuO
(on the surface) ! Cu2+ (in the lattice), upon oxidation and
Cu2+ ! Cu cluster (via Cu+), upon reduction [23]
Pdð0Þ on HZSM-5
!
O2 PdO on HZSM-5
!
O2 PdðHÞZSM-5
(2)
The activity and durability of Pd-ZSM-5 are high enough for
practical applications, but only in the absence of water. In
the presence of water, it deactivates signiﬁcantly, due to the
crystal growth of Pd or PdO. Our efforts to suppress the
deactivation were not successful so forth. Here is another
important problem to be clariﬁed and solved.
4.3. Pd-perovskite
Pd can be incorporated in a perovskite structure to a
certain extent, in the trivalent state, for example, as
La(Fe,Co)0.9Pd0.1O3, under oxidizing conditions. Utilizing
M. Misono / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 95–100
98
Fig. 3. Contrast between the reversible changes of Pd on HZSM-5 and Pd
on NaZSM-5 upon oxidation and reduction.
this property, the sintering of Pd nanoparticles on the surface
of perovskite is greatly suppressed under the working
conditions of automobile exhaust, where the oxidizing
atmosphere and reducing atmosphere alternate rapidly [19].
This is illustrated by Eq. (3) and in Fig. 4
Pdð0Þ on perovskite 
!
 

O2
H2
Pd ð3þ
Þ in perovskiteðLaFeðPdÞO3Þ
(3)
Since the growth of particle size is the major cause of
catalyst deactivation of the three-way catalyst (TWC), Pd
combined with perovskite developed by Tanaka et al. (Dai-
hatsu Motor) exhibited a dramatically prolonged catalyst life
[19]. According to Daihatsu, the amount of Pd usage was
decreased to 30% (saving of 70%). They did not detect Pd
particles by X-ray diffraction after a long-time use, while
Pd(0) was detected by XPS, demonstrating that Pd is present
as very ﬁne particles. They called this catalyst an ‘‘intelli-
gent catalyst’’, since it recovers its initial atomic dispersion
by itself by sensing the change of atmosphere. The ‘‘intel-
ligent catalyst’’ recorded a huge sale and was awarded
several prestigious prizes in Japan.
5. Concluding remarks
Mo–Bi oxides for allylic oxidation, zeolites for catalytic
cracking and Co–Mo sulﬁdes for hydrotreatment may be
most known examples of mixed oxide (or sulﬁde) catalysts
industrialized in the 1960s and 1970s. We summarized in
1990 and 1993, the industrial catalysts developed in the
1980s in Japan [18,24]. There were a large number of new
catalysts and catalytic processes. After our ﬁrst review, there
were similar reports from USA by Armor and Europe by
Hoelderich, as well. In those articles, several new types of
mixed oxide catalysts are found. But after that we see few
new types of mixed oxide catalysts that are really used in
practical application. Mesoporous and zeolitic materials are
interesting and promising, but we do not see so forth many
practical applications except for TS-1.
Important examples that are not discussed in the above
reviews may be CeO2–ZrO2 used as the promoter of three-
way automobile catalysts and NOx storage and reduction
catalysts for lean-burn automobile exhausts. Both of these
new developments originated in the real world of industrial
applications. We also note that, although the performances
of those catalysts have gradually been improved, funda-
mental understanding of catalytic function is still poor and
the R&D very much depend on trial and error. This situation
tempts me to believe that it is now necessary to carry out
proper basic research to solve the problems present in R&D
of practical catalysts and to make hard efforts to realize new
innovative practical catalysts.
In the world of mixed oxides, there are many kinds of
fundamental structures (of double oxides and salts of
oxoacids) and numerous compositions for each structure,
and those mixed oxides exhibit various valuable functions
derived from a variety of electronic, magnetic and chemical
properties. Therefore, we may expect invaluable future
opportunities also for catalytic functions.
Acknowledgments
This article contains rather personal view of the author,
but the view is derived from the discussion and experiments
done with many colleagues. The author expresses deepest
gratitude to them.
References
[1] M. Misono, Chem. Commun. (2001) 1141.
[2] M. Misono, Top. Catal. 21 (2002) 89.
[3] H. Tanaka, M. Misono, Curr. Opin. Solid State Mater. Sci. 5 (2001)
381.
[4] T. Okuhara, N. Mizuno, M. Misono, Adv. Catal. 41 (1996) 113.
[5] M. Misono, Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 29 (1987) 269;
M. Misono, Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 30 (1988) 339.
[6] S. Uchida, K. Inumaru, M. Misono, J. Phys. Chem. B 104 (2000) 8108.
[7] G. Koyano, T. Saito, M. Hashimoto, M. Misono, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal.
130 (2000) 3077;
M. Hashimoto, G. Koyano, N. Mizuno, J. Phys. Chem. B 108 (2004)
12368.
[8] D.J. Constable, A.D. Curzons, V.L. Cunningham, Green Chem. 4
(2002) 521.
[9] T. Okuhara, Private communication.
[10] T. Okuhara, Chem. Rev. 102 (2002) 3641.
[11] H. Ichihashi, M. Ishida, A. Shiga, M. Kitamura, T. Suzuki, K.
Suenobu, K. Sugita, Catal. Surv. Asia 7 (2003) 261.
[12] F. Cavani, R. Mezzogori, A. Pigamo, F. Triﬁro, E. Etienne, Catal.
Today 71 (2001) 97.
[13] K. Kamata, K. Yonehara, Y. Sumida, K. Yamaguchi, S. Hikichi, N.
Mizuno, Science 300 (2003) 964;
N. Mizuno, C. Nozaki, I. Kiyoto, M. Misono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 120
(1998) 9267.
[14] M. Misono, Stud. Surf. Sci. Catal. 54 (1990) 13.
[15] H. Tanaka, N. Mizuno, M. Misono, Appl. Catal. A 244 (2003) 371.
M. Misono / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 95–100
99
Fig. 4. Contrast between the changes of Pd on perovskite and Pd on
ordinary supports upon repeated cycles of oxidizing and reducing atmo-
sphere.
[16] N. Mizuno, H. Fujii, H. Igarashi, M. Misono, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 114
(1992) 7151.
[17] M. Yuasa, G. Sakai, Y. Teraoka, N. Yamazoe, J. Electrochem. Soc. 151
(2004) 1690.
[18] M. Misono, N. Nojiri, Appl. Catal. A 64 (1990) 1.
[19] H. Tanaka, M. Uenishi, I. Tan, M. Kimura, J. Mizuki, Y. Nishihata,
SAE Paper 2001-01-1301 and references cited there in.;
Y. Nishihata, et al. Nature 418 (2002) 164.
[20] Y. Teraoka. http://www.nano-catlaysts.jst.go.jp, http://mm.kyushu-u.
ac.jp/lab_04/99index-j.html.
[21] Y. Nishizaka, M. Misono, Chem. Lett. (1993) 1296;
Y. Nishizaka, M. Misono, Chem. Lett. (1994) 2237.
[22] G. Koyano, S. Yokoyama, M. Misono, Appl. Catal. A: Gen. 188 (1999)
301.
[23] M. Misono, W.K. Hall, J. Phys. Chem. 77 (1973) 791.
[24] N. Nojiri, M. Misono, Appl. Catal. 93 (1993) 103.
M. Misono / Catalysis Today 100 (2005) 95–100
100
