[1] "Different characterization techniques including H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, C3H6-TPD, XPS, BET, CO-chemisorption, CO-DRIFT, and TGA were used to unravel the properties of catalysts."
          [2] "Enhanced propylene selectivity (98.5% Vs 96.4% @ 600 C and 24 h TOS) and catalyst stability were achieved due to the decrease of acid centers of Al2O3 along with an increase of the degree of alloy formation upon addition of Ca."
          [3] "The experimental data of propane conversion vs. time were successfully fitted with the Deactivation Model with Residual Activity (DMRA), allowing for the calculation of the intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters for both catalysts."
          [4] "For the Ca-promoted catalyst, a deactivation function of 0.05 h1 along with a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C were obtained."
          [5] "Whereas, for the non-promoted sample, these values were 0.22 h1 and 0.63, respectively."
          [6] "The activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Pt0.5-Ge1.5/Al2O3-CaO catalyst was slightly higher than that of the unmodified one (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to the enhanced reduction of the GeOx species on this sample, which enhanced the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, decreasing the initial activity of the catalyst."
          [7] "However, the higher resistance against the deactivation by coke of the promoted catalyst was invoked to explain the better performance of this catalyst in terms both of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions."

The Lewis acid site arising from the unsaturated AlIII site in the Al2O3 structure is the active site for the catalytic cycle.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst shows the highest yield, which delivers an initial conversion of 48% and selectivity of 83%.
          A majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The formation of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.

[1] "The synthesis procedure employed a diammonium-type bromide surfactant [C18H37N(CH3)2C6H12N(CH3)2C4H9Br2] and a sodium-free silica source."
          [2] "The presence of silanol nests in the resultant zeolite was confirmed by IR and NMR spectroscopies."
          [3] "When the zeolite was supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y using nitrate precursors, a remarkably long catalytic lifetime of 20 days was obtained with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under the reaction condition using neat propane gas at 853 K."
          [4] "The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles exhibited fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption behavior at room temperature, whereas the monometallic Pt nanoparticles showed only partially reversible chemisorption (4050% reversibility) due to the formation of a strong Pt-H bond."
          [5] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts were even superior to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of catalytic durability."
          [6] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 d as mentioned above, but PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl was deactivated within 1 d, similar to that of Pt(0.5)/MZ-sc."
          [7] "The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite."
          [8] "The HAADF-STEM images show that the metal nanoparticles were homogeneously distributed throughout the support material in all cases."
          [9] "The size of the metal particles was approximately 2 nm for all four samples."
          [10] "The EDS analysis results confirmed that these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Y in the same particle."
          [11] "The average atomic ratio of Pt to Y was determined to be approximately 3 for both PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br samples, which agrees well with the Pt/Y ratio of Pt3Y intermetallic alloys supported on MZ-dg in a previous study."
          [12] "The conversion-vs-time plot in Fig. 6 a shows that the three PtY(0.5) catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period (12 h) to reach the full conversion."
          [13] "The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value (42% at 853 K) during the early reaction period (e.g., < 7 d in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br)."
          [14] "The TGA profile for the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst showed that 37 wt% of coke species were deposited on the catalyst sample."
          [15] "The measured spacing value of 0.403 nm corresponding to the Pt3Y L12 superlattice closely matched the known value of the Pt3Y bulk structure (i.e., 0.400 nm taken from PDF 00017-0058)."
          [16] "The results show that there is an inverse relationship between the propane conversion and the metal loading amount when the catalysts were fully activated."
          [17] "The conversion-vs-loading relationship appears to originate from increasing metal dispersion (or decreasing particle size) at low loadings."
          [18] "The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading appears to be due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst."

"CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [2] "The extent of PtSn interactions depends on the impregnation sequence of Pt and Sn precursors on the support material."
          [3] "The framework of microporous zeolites exerts dispersive forces on the reactant's molecules that depend on the shape, channel and cavity of the framework."
          [4] "In addition, the nature and the density of the active sites influence the framework dispersion forces."
          [5] "Recent reports have shown that the strong electrostatic field between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species can enhance and/or induce polarization of bonds in hydrocarbon adsorbates."
          [6] "This agrees with Hashiguchi et al. [26] , who found enhanced activation of the CH bond on a homogeneous catalyst."
          [7] "Wender et al. [27] showed that 3040% of heat adsorption in n-alkanes on Na-zeolite is due to polarization of the adsorbates."
          [8] "Subbotina et al. [28] also demonstrated that the CH bond of ethane is more strongly polarized on Mg2 + and Ca2 + forms of Y zeolite than on Na+ forms."
          [9] "Based on charge density considerations, Mg2 + cations are expected to exhibit a stronger polarizing effect than Ca2 + cations."
          [10] "Subbotina et al. explain that because of the smaller ionic radius of Mg2 +, it is more strongly shielded by the surrounding oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice than a Ca2 + ion, thereby reducing the polarizing effect of Mg2 + on the hydrocarbon adsorbate."
          [11] "Sievers et al. [29] ,[30] also report that the La3 + form of X zeolite induces strong polarization of adsorbed alkane molecules; partial positive charges were induced on secondary and tertiary carbon atoms of alkane molecules."
          [12] "The authors suggest that the polarization may be viewed as an intermediate condition to hydride abstraction (which is an important elementary step in CH activation)."
          [13] "They add that CH bond polarization was enhanced by physisorbed water molecules that coordinate with La3 + cations."
          [14] "The enhanced polarization of CH bonds by the presence of water molecules on La3 +X zeolite may have a beneficial effect in oxidative dehydrogenation where water is a by-product."
          [15] "Alkane polarization studies on Na+, Mg2 +, Ca2 +, and La3 + exchanged X-zeolites indicate that the polarizing effect increases with increasing charge magnitude and ionic radius."
          [16] "Note that these alkane polarizing cations occupy the same position on the zeolites as the well-known CH activation cations/metals, and thus the CH polarizing effect has a complementary effect on CH activation."
          [17] "This may add to the number of relevant variables and increase the challenge of optimizing the ratio of activation/polarizing cations among exchangeable sites (Si/Al ratio), as well as the sequence for incorporating the cations or metals during catalyst preparation."
          [18] "Further, it is important to note that the choice of cations should be such that they exhibit no catalytic (oligomerization, isomerization, aromatisation or oxidation) effects on the target alkene products at the reaction condition."
          [19] "Furthermore, it may be beneficial to create a CH polarization effect on the zeolite framework."
          [20] "This can be achieved by appropriate chance of framework atoms."
          [21] "Since active sites are usually created on the zeolite frameworks."
          [22] "The active sites (alkoxide intermediate) of the bimolecular pathway are formed in situ ( Scheme 1 )."
          [23] "The alkoxide intermediate is made up of an alkyl carbenium ion ionically held to the zeolite framework oxygen ion."
          [24] "The active sites of the unimolecular pathway are the charge balancing protons of the zeolite framework."
          [25] "A proton and a carbenium ion are an electrophilic or Lewis acid species (a proton can also be considered as a special case of Lewis acidity)."
          [26] "The two pathways essentially involve electrophilic CH activation."
          [27] "The electrophiles (proton and carbenium ion) activate CH at high temperatures (500 C), giving low conversion rates of light alkanes and poor selectivity to corresponding alkenes."
          [28] "The elementary steps of CH activation on OGa+ ( Scheme 2 ) reveal that a redox cycle at the metal center is required for catalytic CH activation via the oxidative addition mechanism."
          [29] "A redox cycle is not apparent in the elementary step presented for CH activation on OZn2+O."
          [30] "Hence, a redox cycle is not a requisite for CH activation via the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism."
          [31] "However, under alkane dehydrogenation reaction conditions, the OZn2+O sites can undergo a reversible Zn2 +/Zn redox process ( Scheme 3 )."
          [32] "This redox process increases the availability of undesired protonic site intermediates."
          [33] "Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 prepared by conventional ion-exchange methods contain a significant percentage of unexchanged proton sites leading to lower alkene selectivity of the catalyst."
          [34] "Iglesia and Biscardi [59] titrate the proton sites with NaOH."
          [35] "The un-titrated and the titrated catalysts are denoted as Zn/H-ZSMS-5 and Zn/Na-ZSMS-5, respectively."
          [36] "Zn/Na-ZSM-5 has four times the propane conversion rate and a higher propene selectivity than Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [37] "The propene formation rate obtained with Zn/Na-ZSM-5 was ten times that of Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [38] "The zinc species at the cation exchange site of the zeolite was identified as OZn+OH."
          [39] "The higher propene selectivity obtained on Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is presumably from the lower density and availability of proton sites on Zn/Na-ZSM-5."
          [40] "The improved propane conversion rate of Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is attributable to the higher efficiency of OZn+OH sites in catalyzing desorption of H-adatoms than OZn2+O sites."
          [41] "Another strategy to enhance alkene selectivity is by controlling the strength of the proton sites."
          [42] "The acidity of the sites depends on the nature of the trivalent cation of the zeolite framework."
          [43] "Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker than those of aluminosilicate [60] ,[61] ,[62] ,[63] ,[64] , and thus higher alkene selectivity is expected for alkane dehydrogenation over Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H[Al]-ZSM-5."
          [44] "However, Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows no activity for propane dehydrogenation."
          [45] "The desired weaker acidity of the proton sites of Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 requires weaker basicity of the oxygen atoms in the zeolite framework."
          [46] "This reduced basicity of the oxygen atoms is not sufficiently polarizing to complement the exchanged Zn2 + in CH bond cleavage."
          [47] "In the next section, we examine use of zeolite support to design a Pt-based alkane dehydrogenation catalyst."
          [48] "Elimination of the proton sites of zeolites is critical for obtaining a high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts."
          [49] "Pt is the most versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions [65] ."
          [50] "Although Pt is expensive, the choice of Pt is often justified by its higher activity, stability and selectivity for these reactions compared to less expensive alternative transition metals."
          [51] "However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge even when using a Pt-based catalyst for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [52] "Waku et al. [66] exploited the unique property of zeolite as a support for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites to create a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [53] "They found that the catalyst deactivation rate of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was lower than for any other Pt-based catalysts in refractory oxide support."
          [54] "The unprecedented performance of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was attributed to its high Pt dispersion (cluster size < 1 mm) on zeolite through ion-exchange."
          [55] "There is a tendency to generate some Brnsted protons on the zeolite during the exchange process, but the choice of Fe3 + as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3 + led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM."
          [56] "The weaker acidity minimizes the tendency of side reactions (cracking of oligomerization, aromatisation, and coke), which translates into higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability."
          [57] "In another report, Xuebing and Iglesia [67] demonstrated the ability of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 to dehydrogenate alkanes longer than C4; n-pentane and n-heptane were selectively converted to n-pentene and n-heptene, respectively."
          [58] "Alkene selectivity was also improved when the residual proton generated during Pt exchange or Na-[Fe]-ZSM was titrated with Cs [67] ."
          [59] "Although Pt with conventional refractory oxides (Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, etc.) used for dehydrogenation of alkanes has similar conversion rates to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, deactivation rates are also rapid due to coke formation."
          [60] "The presence of acid (Bronsted and Lewis) sites on the supports promotes readsorption, oligomerization and aromatisation of alkenes."
          [61] "Promotion of Pt with metals, such as Sn, Ga, Zn, Re, etc., improves catalyst stability, but also leads to faster deactivation rates than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [62] "However, recent reports by Bell et al. [68] ,[69] ,[70] show that the use of calcined hydrotalcite (Al/Mg  0.1) supported on bimetallic PtGa or PtSn gave very high alkene selectivity and stability, comparable to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [63] "At this stage, we can conclude that differences in the performance of Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 obtained by Kanansky et al. [53] are attributable to their respective CH activation mechanisms."
          [64] "In addition, the role of exchanged Zn and Ga as promoters of RD becomes evident from the mechanisms ( Scheme 2 )."
          [65] "The RD mechanism on Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 is by reductive elimination of a hydrogen molecule from O[Ga(H)2]+ intermediate."
          [66] "Decomposition of ZnR and a protonic site, or neutralization of the proton sites by ZnH, leads to desorption of the hydrogen molecule on the Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5."
          [67] "By extrapolation, the mechanisms of CH activation on exchanged Zn and Ga H-ZSM-5 can described the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on Cr-based and Pt-based catalysts respectively."
          [68] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
          [69] "However, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism could also explain the proposed CH activation on Cr-based catalysts."
          [70] "Now, the nature and the role of surface oxygen species become more evident."
          [71] "The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity."
          [72] "The highlights in this section are presented in Table 2 ."
          [73] "The table reveals the insights achieved on the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity and catalyst stability for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [74] "Nonetheless, the level of catalyst activity is still far from acceptable, even at high temperature."
          [75] "A recent report by Rothenberg et al. [71] provides a lead in this respect."
          [76] "Their report indicates that a porous copperaluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance (activity/selectivity/stability) for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3."
          [77] "Of particular interest, is the suggestion that achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C may be possible."
          [78] "Few details are known about the structure of the porous copperaluminum framework material."
          [79] "However, copper is implicated as providing the active sites for the catalysis."
          [80] "Also, that the material activated in oxygen gave higher propane conversion rates than those activated in inert gas atmosphere underscores the role of the surface oxide (oxygen species) in the catalysis."
          [81] "Thus, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may be invoked here, and the redox property of the metal center is likely to play a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C."
          [82] "This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."

[3] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [4] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [5] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [6] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [7] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [8] "The pore size is also considered to have a slight effect on the catalytic activity, i.e., lower activation barriers for reactions in zeolites with larger pore size."
          [9] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [10] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [11] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [12] "Although the general trend of catalytic activity is not as easy to be addressed for these as for metal systems, the case studies still shed light on dehydrogenation mechanisms in these systems, and more insights emerge which are normally difficult to be explored at molecular level even by the most advanced experimental equipment."
          [13] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [14] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [15] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [16] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [17] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [18] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [19] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [20] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [21] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
          [22] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."

[1] "PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month."
          [2] "The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one."
          [3] "Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles."
          [4] "Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time."
          [5] "The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited."
          [6] "Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts."
          [7] "Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH."
          [8] "The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites."
          [9] "Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent."
          [10] "The resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH."



Al2O3 is one of the most commonly used supports in heterogeneous catalysis due to its structural advantages and stability.
          The coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites present on the (100) facets of commercial γ-Al2O3 can serve as anchor sites to anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites.
          The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 can allow the tetrahedral Ga3+ cations to highly disperse in the spinel-type γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 solid solution, leading to an enhanced activity and stability in PDH reaction.
          The γ-Al2O3 nanosheet containing 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites has been proved that it could nicely disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters because of the strong interactions between metals and support.
          This PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent performance at an ultrahigh space velocity in a long-term PDH reaction.
          In addition to being an appropriate support, the hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 showed a high activity of coordinately unsaturated Al3+ as the surface active sites in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene.
          Furthermore, the diversity and complexity on the structure of Al2O3, for example the surface acidity at the low-coordinated Al sites, determined the different properties in the adsorption and the activation of propane as well as coke deposition in the PDH reaction.
          Herein, a one-step hydrothermal method is employed to synthesize sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficiently catalyzing the PDH reaction.
          The structural and catalytic stabilities as well as the CoAl2O3 interaction for these catalysts are benchmarked to an impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst.
          We further illustrate the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in the Co-catalyzed PDH reaction.

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
          [2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
          [3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
          [4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
          [5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
          [6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
          [7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."
          [8] "The introduction of Pt species via impregnation does not change the dispersion of Zn species on Si-Beta support."
          [9] "The close contact between Pt-Zn species and the electronic interaction thereof make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts."

[1] "NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts."
          [2] "NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity."
          [3] "Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds."
          [4] "High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination temperatures of 400500 C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability."

[1] "The stability of the Pt particles at the surface of supports can be greatly enhanced by the manipulation of metal-support interaction [9] ,[10] ."
          [2] "The Al2O3 with coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites can stabilize the atomically dispersed Pt specie via the formation of Al3+ penta-O-Pt bond, which results in anchoring Pt particles at the surface of Al2O3 support."
          [3] "The Pt particles can be tightly stabilized on the heteroatoms in the lattice of oxide substrate [11] ."
          [4] "Small Pt particles stabilized in the lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) produces a highly selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [12] ."
          [5] "Pt particles confined at the Sn single-site in zeolite framework show high catalytic performance in the propane dehydrogenation, and the enhanced performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the strong interaction between the Pt particles and the framework of Sn-zeolite [13] ."
          [6] "The PtSn bimetallic particles are confined in the mesopores, which allow them to become a stable catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at high temperature."
          [7] "The high efficiency of these PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is mainly attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles in the mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite."

Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors.
          β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity.
          The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity.
          Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst.
          Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%.
          The role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41  CrOx/MgO  CrOx/Si-2.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the nature of the support material, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, can affect the dispersion and stability of the active phase, thereby impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The interaction between the support and the active phase can also alter the electronic properties of the catalyst, which can further enhance its performance. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can reduce surface acidity and increase the number of active sites, while using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.

<!-- Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results -->

[1] "The physicochemical properties of catalysts have a significant impact on their catalytic behaviors. Chemical qualities, including acid strength and hydrothermal and pH stability, affect the selectivity toward the targeted alkene in dehydrogenation reactions, while the morphological and porous qualities can influence the diffusion efficiency."
          [2] "In this section, strategies focused on support modification for dehydrogenation catalysts are summarized (Table 3)."
          [3] "PDH is an acid-sensitive reaction, which signifies that proper acidity of the support is preferable for CH activation and propylene desorption, while unduly strong acidity, on the other hand, can generate a negative impact on the PDH process, possibly leading to CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation."
          [4] "As for zeolites, the Lewis acid sites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while the Brnsted acid sites are inductive factors in catalyzing cleavage reactions."
          [5] "For heterogeneous catalysts, one kinetic factor, the diffusion efficiency of the reactants and products, which is determined by the morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties of the supports, should be taken into consideration."
          [6] "Several strategies are proposed, focusing on shortening the diffusion path or diffusion resistance, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces, e.g., needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures."

[1] "Different characterization techniques including H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, C3H6-TPD, XPS, BET, CO-chemisorption, CO-DRIFT, and TGA were used to unravel the properties of catalysts."
          [2] "Enhanced propylene selectivity (98.5% Vs 96.4% @ 600 C and 24 h TOS) and catalyst stability were achieved due to the decrease of acid centers of Al2O3 along with an increase of the degree of alloy formation upon addition of Ca."
          [3] "The experimental data of propane conversion vs. time were successfully fitted with the Deactivation Model with Residual Activity (DMRA), allowing for the calculation of the intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters for both catalysts."
          [4] "For the Ca-promoted catalyst, a deactivation function of 0.05 h1 along with a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C were obtained."
          [5] "Whereas, for the non-promoted sample, these values were 0.22 h1 and 0.63, respectively."
          [6] "The activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Pt0.5-Ge1.5/Al2O3-CaO catalyst was slightly higher than that of the unmodified one (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to the enhanced reduction of the GeOx species on this sample, which enhanced the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, decreasing the initial activity of the catalyst."
          [7] "However, the higher resistance against the deactivation by coke of the promoted catalyst was invoked to explain the better performance of this catalyst in terms both of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions."

The Lewis acid site arising from the unsaturated AlIII site in the Al2O3 structure is the active site for the catalytic cycle.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst shows the highest yield, which delivers an initial conversion of 48% and selectivity of 83%.
          A majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The formation of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.

[1] "The synthesis procedure employed a diammonium-type bromide surfactant [C18H37N(CH3)2C6H12N(CH3)2C4H9Br2] and a sodium-free silica source."
          [2] "The presence of silanol nests in the resultant zeolite was confirmed by IR and NMR spectroscopies."
          [3] "When the zeolite was supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y using nitrate precursors, a remarkably long catalytic lifetime of 20 days was obtained with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under the reaction condition using neat propane gas at 853 K."
          [4] "The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles exhibited fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption behavior at room temperature, whereas the monometallic Pt nanoparticles showed only partially reversible chemisorption (4050% reversibility) due to the formation of a strong Pt-H bond."
          [5] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts were even superior to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of catalytic durability."
          [6] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 d as mentioned above, but PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl was deactivated within 1 d, similar to that of Pt(0.5)/MZ-sc."
          [7] "The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite."
          [8] "The HAADF-STEM images show that the metal nanoparticles were homogeneously distributed throughout the support material in all cases."
          [9] "The size of the metal particles was approximately 2 nm for all four samples."
          [10] "The EDS analysis results confirmed that these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Y in the same particle."
          [11] "The average atomic ratio of Pt to Y was determined to be approximately 3 for both PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br samples, which agrees well with the Pt/Y ratio of Pt3Y intermetallic alloys supported on MZ-dg in a previous study."
          [12] "The conversion-vs-time plot in Fig. 6 a shows that the three PtY(0.5) catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period (12 h) to reach the full conversion."
          [13] "The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value (42% at 853 K) during the early reaction period (e.g., < 7 d in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br)."
          [14] "The TGA profile for the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst showed that 37 wt% of coke species were deposited on the catalyst sample."
          [15] "The measured spacing value of 0.403 nm corresponding to the Pt3Y L12 superlattice closely matched the known value of the Pt3Y bulk structure (i.e., 0.400 nm taken from PDF 00017-0058)."
          [16] "The results show that there is an inverse relationship between the propane conversion and the metal loading amount when the catalysts were fully activated."
          [17] "The conversion-vs-loading relationship appears to originate from increasing metal dispersion (or decreasing particle size) at low loadings."
          [18] "The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading appears to be due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst."

"CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."

The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. The experimental parameters had a beneficial effect on the concentration of Zrcus4+ ions, and the concentration of surface lattice oxygen, which in tandem play an active role in propane activation.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.
The preparation of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt.
The enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
The stability was improved in the presence of CO2 (compared to DDH); ca. 74% of the original activity was retained after 10 h on-stream, which is relatively good compared to Ga- and Cr-based catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
The role of CO2 in ODH-CO2 is to assist the above equilibrium by removing H2via the RWGS reaction.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
The initial STY of this catalyst was 10.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 13, entry 4), which is amongst the most active reported to date, but requires significant improvements to its on-stream stability.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 (Table 13) and some Ga2O3 catalysts (Table 12).
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
The authors concluded that the relative proportions of V3+, V4+ and V5+ species present on the catalyst surface were affected by V loading and at the optimal loading of 12 wt%, a high concentration of isolated V3+ species was detected.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
The combined and synergistic effect of the surface acidity modifications, their influence on the active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitated desorption of propene and inhibited the deep dehydrogenation that leads to coke precursors.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The highest STY achieved was 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 7).
The moderate vanadium doping level was conducive to highly dispersed vanadium species in the form of isolated and low-polymerized VOx species.
Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability.
The STY was 6.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 5), due to the low GHSV so while the catalyst achieved high selectivity at reasonable propane conversion, it was not as intrinsically active as other supported VOx catalysts.
The most active catalyst, V/Si-beta (having 3 wt% V loading) displayed an initial propene yield of 33.4% and retained activity over multiple dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The STY was 4.4 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 6), which is 56 times less active than the most active VOx catalysts reported to date, suggesting that Si-beta does not facilitate a high concentration of active V sites.
It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).
The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species.
For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C.
This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported.
The STY of ZrO2 without VOx is actually much higher than in the current work.
The most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method.
The role of the other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear so further work to elucidate this could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.
The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels.
The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation.
The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.
The preparation of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.
The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond.
The metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.
The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
It was found that over 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2, the propene yield increased from 6.5% to 9.1% when CO2 was co-fed instead of Ar.
In contrast, the alumina supported catalyst was inhibited by the addition of CO2, as shown by the drop in propene yield from 12.7% to 3.3%.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/AC material was unaffected by CO2 addition.
The Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
Relative to many other metal oxides, Cr2O3 is considered to be one of the most promising catalysts for ODH-CO2.
Takehira et al. compared the catalytic performance of several d block and p block oxides (namely Cr, Ga, Ni, V, Fe, Mn and Co) supported on MCM-41, at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 molar ratio of 5.6.
After 30 min on-stream, the propene yield of the Cr-based catalyst was 15% whereas for the Ga-based counterpart it was 5%.
The remaining catalysts all exhibited lower propene yields (in the 14% range).
However, as the catalysts were not characterised, it is unclear if the dispersion of these catalysts was comparable, and therefore if the results reflect the true intrinsic activity of each metal.
It was also noted that the order of reactivity resembled the trends observed by Nakagawa et al. for diamond-supported metal catalysts in the DDH reaction.
This suggests that there are commonalities in catalyst design between DDH and ODH-CO2 which most likely relate to the interaction of the alkane with the catalyst.
Contrary to this, Zhang et al. compared ZrO2, SBA-15 and γ-Al2O3 as supports for Cr2O3 in the DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions.
They found that the highest propene yield was observed with different catalyst systems under different dehydrogenation reactions, i.e., the activity trends in DDH did not translate to ODH-CO2 catalysts.
Specifically, Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was the most active for the DDH reaction, while the highest yield of propene for the ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions was observed over Cr2O3/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 7).
Across all the catalysts however, the highest propene yields were generally observed in the DDH reaction, ascribed to the production of carbon oxides in the ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 reactions.
However, it was reported that Cr2O3/ZrO2 was more stable on-stream in ODH-CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
Wu et al. also observed increased stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2 in the presence of CO2 (Table 11, entry 4).
They reported that the CO formation rate was higher than the CO2 consumption rate and the excess CO was suggested to originate from the Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C  2CO); this could explain the increased stability of this catalyst.
It is possible that some dry reforming of propane also took place, which would produce H2 and CO.
Zhao et al. recently reported the facile preparation of Cr supported in mesoporous ZrO2 using an evaporation-induced self-assembly method (Table 11, entry 6).
The authors suggested that propene could react with carbon dioxide to form carbon monoxide, methane and water.
Other studies have reported a stronger inhibition effect for Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2.
For instance, Ferreira et al. studied the adsorption properties of CO2 and concluded that it binds strongly to active Cr2O3 sites, lowering the activity and stability of the catalyst,
whereas Xie et al. suggested that coke formation could originate from CO2 hydrogenation over Cr2+ species.
These conflicting reports may relate to the structural polymorph of ZrO2 present in the catalyst support; this factor is often overlooked, but recent studies from Kondratenko et al. revealed that nanocrystalline ZrO2 is an active DDH catalyst in its own right151,152 under similar reaction conditions.
The ZrO2 crystal phase and crystallite size were strongly correlated to the catalyst activity: smaller crystallites were more active but amorphous ZrO2 had very low intrinsic activity.
Moreover, monoclinic ZrO2 was more active than tetragonal ZrO2.
Cr2O3-catalysed ODH-CO2 has been examined over different polymorphs of SiO2,254256 including various structured porous oxides, including SBA-1,84 SBA-15,250,257 MCM-41,91 amorphous silica84 and mesoporous silica spheres.258
Notably, Michorczyk et al. reported a detailed comparison of different silica supports, coupled with an in-depth characterisation study.84
It was shown that in each case, the same active Cr species was formed, namely Cr6+, but higher surface area silicas (e.g., SBA-1 and SBA-15) were able to facilitate a higher number of such sites.
A clear correlation was found between the rate of propene formation and the wt% of Cr6+, as determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).
In DDH, while Cr6+ is considered active, under reaction conditions Cr3+ is rapidly formed and considered the principle active species.93,94
The selectivity to propene was similar across the different silica supports (8893%), with the observed differences being attributable to differences in propane conversion rather than catalytic properties.
These Cr2O3/SiO2 catalysts were highly active at 550 C and the most active catalyst (Cr2O3/SBA-1) achieved a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, as shown in Table 11, entry 12.
It should be noted that the experiments were carried out with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 5, which as discussed above, has been shown to enable a higher equilibrium yield of propene.
Therefore, in studies where high conversions are generally targeted and carbon dioxide is in excess of propane, higher propene yields are reported.
Takehira et al. carried out X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) on CrOx/MCM-41, confirming that the reduction of Cr6+ occurs during the reaction.91
Specifically, they identified Cr6+O4 tetrahedra as the active species.
These Cr3+O6 octahedra were formed after reduction, which were considered to be less active.
It was shown that CO2 could re-oxidise the Cr, which suggests that the redox cycle between Cr6+ and Cr3+ is an important process during the reaction.
Yi et al. discriminated between isolated Cr6+ and polymeric Cr6+, finding that after reduction, isolated Cr3+ was more active than polymeric Cr3+. This underlines the importance of Cr dispersion in these catalysts.259
In a more detailed examination of Cr2O3/SBA-1, the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the catalyst and the observed activity were explored.85
Michorczyk et al. found a strong positive correlation between the initial propene yield and the reducibility of the catalyst, specifically the H2 consumption.
In situ UV-vis measurements revealed that Cr6+ is rapidly reduced to Cr3+ or Cr2+ in the presence of C3H8 under reaction conditions.
The reaction proceeds through a Mars-Van Krevelen mechanism, via the Cr2+/3+ redox couple.
Rapid deactivation, typical of Cr2O3 catalysts, was observed, although the majority of the initial activity could be recovered after regeneration in air.
The remainder was ascribed to pore collapse and/or the formation of inactive Cr sites, although the loss of surface Cr sites through agglomeration was not considered.
Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260
The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene.
While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air.
This severely limits the utility of this catalyst.
Zeolites have also been considered as catalyst supports for Cr2O3.
Zhang et al. prepared CrOx/Na-ZSM-5 via incipient wetness.261
Although the initial conversion and selectivity was high (48% and 86%, respectively) (Table 11, entry 5), the catalysts deactivated rapidly and the reaction conditions were such that the STY was only 2.5 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 2.
Zhu et al. investigated a range of MFI supports, including silicalite-1 and H[B]MFI.262
CrOx/H[B]MFI was found to be the most active catalyst, giving a STY of 4.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C with a CO2:C3H8 of 1 (Table 11, entry 15).
Although the as-prepared catalyst exhibited typically poor stability for Cr catalysts, steam treating the catalyst resulted in a marked improvement.
After 60 h on-stream, the as-prepared catalyst retained only 25% of its initial conversion, while the steam treated catalyst retained ca. 74%.
The authors ascribed the effect to stabilised Cr3+ formed in the steam treatment.
Presumably the reduction of Cr6+ during the reaction results in an inactive or less active Cr3+ species.
It should also be noted that the as-prepared catalyst was initially almost twice as active as the steam treated catalyst, which leaves the possibility that at higher conversions, increased coke formation may have occurred which would exaggerate the deactivation compared to the steam treated catalyst.
Ideally such stability comparisons would be made at isoconversion, however this discovery is one of only a few that shows improved stability on-stream.
Recently, Michorczyk et al. prepared a Cr-β-zeolite and investigated the effect of dealumination, which clearly elucidated the effect of acidity on the catalytic performance.263
It was reported that the dealuminated catalyst, Cr-SiBeta, exhibited significantly higher propene yields (up to 27%), compared to the Al-containing catalyst, Cr-AlBeta (2%).
The presence of acid sites in the Cr-AlBeta catalyst resulted in cracking pathways that led to increased production of methane and ethene.
Moreover, the CrAlbeta catalyst performed less well in the presence of CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
This was explained by the strong adsorption of CO2 on the catalyst, similar to the inhibition observed over Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts.
The stability of the dealuminated catalyst was also improved compared with CrAlbeta, but significant loss in activity was observed over the 4 h reaction.
In considering the redox properties of the catalysts in this work, and their previous investigations, the authors also identified a strong correlation between the H2 consumption from H2-TPR studies and the reported propene yield, as shown in Fig. 10.
While the majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial.
Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264
After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream.
In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period.
Using three-stage H2-TPR experiments (where the catalyst is reduced twice under H2 and then re-oxidised in CO2 before the final H2-TPR program), the authors showed that the addition of Ni facilitated the re-oxidation of Cr during the reaction.
This is consistent with previously reported mechanisms of deactivation over Cr-based catalysts, although coking is also often reported to cause deactivation.
Interestingly, the promoted catalyst was marginally more prone to coking.
This strongly suggests that overreduction of active Cr sites is the key deactivation mechanism over these catalysts.
There is a lot of potential to develop promoted Cr catalysts that could enhance the redox activity of the catalyst; precious metals including Pd and Pt are often supported on reducible supports for this purpose.265
Crucially, it was found that above 0.5 wt% Ni, propane reforming was prevalent, which underlines the importance of appropriate loadings of promotors.
O'Brien et al. investigated the effect of a Ru promoter to a 10 wt% CrOx/SiO2 catalyst.
Consistent with Yun et al. it was shown that the propene formation rate was increased.
A 1 wt% Ru loading was optimal and doubled the activity.
Interestingly, this is approximately the same molar ratio reported as the optimum by Yun et al. for Ni-promoted CrOx/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 14).
Another similarity was the propensity of reforming to dominate at high loadings (>1 wt%).
The enhanced stability seen in Ni-promoted Cr catalysts was not observed in this work and the activity could not be fully recovered after regeneration.
Consequently, aggregation of Cr species was suggested as an additional deactivation mechanism in addition to coke formation and overreduction of Cr.
Rather than aid Cr re-oxidation in a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation, the authors concluded that the Ru promotes the RWGS reaction, which removes H2 and increases the equilibrium conversion of propane.
However, the results of three-stage H2-TPR reactions indicated that Cr can be more easily oxidised in the presence of Ru, which suggests that Ru can participate in a similar role as Ni-promoted Cr catalysts.
Overall supported chromium oxide catalysts represent one of the most active classes of ODH-CO2 catalysts, with STY values in the range of 222 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
The correct balance of acidic and basic sites is a key consideration in catalyst design.
Equally, the ratio of carbon dioxide to propane is important to take in account, as it has kinetic and thermodynamic implications.
Thermodynamically, higher CO2:C3H8 ratios limit coke forming side-reactions.
The addition of CO2 in the dehydrogenation reaction has multiple effects: As discussed in Section 2, it facilitates the RWGS reaction which removes H2 from the system and shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium limit to favour propene production.
Additionally, CO2 can dissociate on the surface of a catalyst and provide O species to dehydrogenate propane directly.
Finally, it can react with coke via the reverse-Boudouard reaction to produce CO, which can potentially extend the lifetime of the catalyst.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial.
Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial, Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
Using NH3-TPD analysis, the authors concluded that weak Lewis acid sites were conducive to high activity.
These acidbase properties most likely contribute to the enhanced stability as well; it is known that stronger acid sites promote oligomerisation pathways that produce coke.
The increased performance of Ga2O3/ZSM-48 was attributed to the abundance of weak and medium strength acid sites.
The low activity of Ga2O3/MgO and Ga2O3/SiO2 was ascribed to the absence of medium and strong acid sites.
In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced.
This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
It was found that 10 mol% Fe in CeO2 exhibited the highest propene yield.
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
They showed that reforming pathways were more prevalent at higher CO2:C3H8 ratios, such as 2.5:1 and 5:1.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 and some Ga2O3 catalysts.
The number of studies on supported nanoparticle catalysts for ODH-CO2 are relatively few and those available indicate that this field of research has great potential.
The major challenge is in understanding and inhibiting side-reactions such as reforming, which are known to proceed over this class of catalyst, unlike in Cr- and Ga-based catalysts.
Careful consideration of the nanostructure and composition has shown that the selectivity can be readily tuned to favour different pathways, and further investigation in this area may well be able to harness the high activity of supported nanoparticles as well as favour dehydrogenation pathways.
Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental.
The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America.
The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale.
With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
The majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%).
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.
The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst.
The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [2] "The extent of PtSn interactions depends on the impregnation sequence of Pt and Sn precursors on the support material."
          [3] "The framework of microporous zeolites exerts dispersive forces on the reactant's molecules that depend on the shape, channel and cavity of the framework."
          [4] "In addition, the nature and the density of the active sites influence the framework dispersion forces."
          [5] "Recent reports have shown that the strong electrostatic field between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species can enhance and/or induce polarization of bonds in hydrocarbon adsorbates."
          [6] "This agrees with Hashiguchi et al. [26] , who found enhanced activation of the CH bond on a homogeneous catalyst."
          [7] "Wender et al. [27] showed that 3040% of heat adsorption in n-alkanes on Na-zeolite is due to polarization of the adsorbates."
          [8] "Subbotina et al. [28] also demonstrated that the CH bond of ethane is more strongly polarized on Mg2 + and Ca2 + forms of Y zeolite than on Na+ forms."
          [9] "Based on charge density considerations, Mg2 + cations are expected to exhibit a stronger polarizing effect than Ca2 + cations."
          [10] "Subbotina et al. explain that because of the smaller ionic radius of Mg2 +, it is more strongly shielded by the surrounding oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice than a Ca2 + ion, thereby reducing the polarizing effect of Mg2 + on the hydrocarbon adsorbate."
          [11] "Sievers et al. [29] ,[30] also report that the La3 + form of X zeolite induces strong polarization of adsorbed alkane molecules; partial positive charges were induced on secondary and tertiary carbon atoms of alkane molecules."
          [12] "The authors suggest that the polarization may be viewed as an intermediate condition to hydride abstraction (which is an important elementary step in CH activation)."
          [13] "They add that CH bond polarization was enhanced by physisorbed water molecules that coordinate with La3 + cations."
          [14] "The enhanced polarization of CH bonds by the presence of water molecules on La3 +X zeolite may have a beneficial effect in oxidative dehydrogenation where water is a by-product."
          [15] "Alkane polarization studies on Na+, Mg2 +, Ca2 +, and La3 + exchanged X-zeolites indicate that the polarizing effect increases with increasing charge magnitude and ionic radius."
          [16] "Note that these alkane polarizing cations occupy the same position on the zeolites as the well-known CH activation cations/metals, and thus the CH polarizing effect has a complementary effect on CH activation."
          [17] "This may add to the number of relevant variables and increase the challenge of optimizing the ratio of activation/polarizing cations among exchangeable sites (Si/Al ratio), as well as the sequence for incorporating the cations or metals during catalyst preparation."
          [18] "Further, it is important to note that the choice of cations should be such that they exhibit no catalytic (oligomerization, isomerization, aromatisation or oxidation) effects on the target alkene products at the reaction condition."
          [19] "Furthermore, it may be beneficial to create a CH polarization effect on the zeolite framework."
          [20] "This can be achieved by appropriate chance of framework atoms."
          [21] "Since active sites are usually created on the zeolite frameworks."
          [22] "The active sites (alkoxide intermediate) of the bimolecular pathway are formed in situ ( Scheme 1 )."
          [23] "The alkoxide intermediate is made up of an alkyl carbenium ion ionically held to the zeolite framework oxygen ion."
          [24] "The active sites of the unimolecular pathway are the charge balancing protons of the zeolite framework."
          [25] "A proton and a carbenium ion are an electrophilic or Lewis acid species (a proton can also be considered as a special case of Lewis acidity)."
          [26] "The two pathways essentially involve electrophilic CH activation."
          [27] "The electrophiles (proton and carbenium ion) activate CH at high temperatures (500 C), giving low conversion rates of light alkanes and poor selectivity to corresponding alkenes."
          [28] "The elementary steps of CH activation on OGa+ ( Scheme 2 ) reveal that a redox cycle at the metal center is required for catalytic CH activation via the oxidative addition mechanism."
          [29] "A redox cycle is not apparent in the elementary step presented for CH activation on OZn2+O."
          [30] "Hence, a redox cycle is not a requisite for CH activation via the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism."
          [31] "However, under alkane dehydrogenation reaction conditions, the OZn2+O sites can undergo a reversible Zn2 +/Zn redox process ( Scheme 3 )."
          [32] "This redox process increases the availability of undesired protonic site intermediates."
          [33] "Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 prepared by conventional ion-exchange methods contain a significant percentage of unexchanged proton sites leading to lower alkene selectivity of the catalyst."
          [34] "Iglesia and Biscardi [59] titrate the proton sites with NaOH."
          [35] "The un-titrated and the titrated catalysts are denoted as Zn/H-ZSMS-5 and Zn/Na-ZSMS-5, respectively."
          [36] "Zn/Na-ZSM-5 has four times the propane conversion rate and a higher propene selectivity than Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [37] "The propene formation rate obtained with Zn/Na-ZSM-5 was ten times that of Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [38] "The zinc species at the cation exchange site of the zeolite was identified as OZn+OH."
          [39] "The higher propene selectivity obtained on Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is presumably from the lower density and availability of proton sites on Zn/Na-ZSM-5."
          [40] "The improved propane conversion rate of Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is attributable to the higher efficiency of OZn+OH sites in catalyzing desorption of H-adatoms than OZn2+O sites."
          [41] "Another strategy to enhance alkene selectivity is by controlling the strength of the proton sites."
          [42] "The acidity of the sites depends on the nature of the trivalent cation of the zeolite framework."
          [43] "Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker than those of aluminosilicate [60] ,[61] ,[62] ,[63] ,[64] , and thus higher alkene selectivity is expected for alkane dehydrogenation over Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H[Al]-ZSM-5."
          [44] "However, Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows no activity for propane dehydrogenation."
          [45] "The desired weaker acidity of the proton sites of Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 requires weaker basicity of the oxygen atoms in the zeolite framework."
          [46] "This reduced basicity of the oxygen atoms is not sufficiently polarizing to complement the exchanged Zn2 + in CH bond cleavage."
          [47] "In the next section, we examine use of zeolite support to design a Pt-based alkane dehydrogenation catalyst."
          [48] "Elimination of the proton sites of zeolites is critical for obtaining a high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts."
          [49] "Pt is the most versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions [65] ."
          [50] "Although Pt is expensive, the choice of Pt is often justified by its higher activity, stability and selectivity for these reactions compared to less expensive alternative transition metals."
          [51] "However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge even when using a Pt-based catalyst for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [52] "Waku et al. [66] exploited the unique property of zeolite as a support for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites to create a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [53] "They found that the catalyst deactivation rate of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was lower than for any other Pt-based catalysts in refractory oxide support."
          [54] "The unprecedented performance of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was attributed to its high Pt dispersion (cluster size < 1 mm) on zeolite through ion-exchange."
          [55] "There is a tendency to generate some Brnsted protons on the zeolite during the exchange process, but the choice of Fe3 + as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3 + led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM."
          [56] "The weaker acidity minimizes the tendency of side reactions (cracking of oligomerization, aromatisation, and coke), which translates into higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability."
          [57] "In another report, Xuebing and Iglesia [67] demonstrated the ability of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 to dehydrogenate alkanes longer than C4; n-pentane and n-heptane were selectively converted to n-pentene and n-heptene, respectively."
          [58] "Alkene selectivity was also improved when the residual proton generated during Pt exchange or Na-[Fe]-ZSM was titrated with Cs [67] ."
          [59] "Although Pt with conventional refractory oxides (Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, etc.) used for dehydrogenation of alkanes has similar conversion rates to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, deactivation rates are also rapid due to coke formation."
          [60] "The presence of acid (Bronsted and Lewis) sites on the supports promotes readsorption, oligomerization and aromatisation of alkenes."
          [61] "Promotion of Pt with metals, such as Sn, Ga, Zn, Re, etc., improves catalyst stability, but also leads to faster deactivation rates than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [62] "However, recent reports by Bell et al. [68] ,[69] ,[70] show that the use of calcined hydrotalcite (Al/Mg  0.1) supported on bimetallic PtGa or PtSn gave very high alkene selectivity and stability, comparable to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [63] "At this stage, we can conclude that differences in the performance of Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 obtained by Kanansky et al. [53] are attributable to their respective CH activation mechanisms."
          [64] "In addition, the role of exchanged Zn and Ga as promoters of RD becomes evident from the mechanisms ( Scheme 2 )."
          [65] "The RD mechanism on Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 is by reductive elimination of a hydrogen molecule from O[Ga(H)2]+ intermediate."
          [66] "Decomposition of ZnR and a protonic site, or neutralization of the proton sites by ZnH, leads to desorption of the hydrogen molecule on the Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5."
          [67] "By extrapolation, the mechanisms of CH activation on exchanged Zn and Ga H-ZSM-5 can described the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on Cr-based and Pt-based catalysts respectively."
          [68] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
          [69] "However, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism could also explain the proposed CH activation on Cr-based catalysts."
          [70] "Now, the nature and the role of surface oxygen species become more evident."
          [71] "The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity."
          [72] "The highlights in this section are presented in Table 2 ."
          [73] "The table reveals the insights achieved on the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity and catalyst stability for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [74] "Nonetheless, the level of catalyst activity is still far from acceptable, even at high temperature."
          [75] "A recent report by Rothenberg et al. [71] provides a lead in this respect."
          [76] "Their report indicates that a porous copperaluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance (activity/selectivity/stability) for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3."
          [77] "Of particular interest, is the suggestion that achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C may be possible."
          [78] "Few details are known about the structure of the porous copperaluminum framework material."
          [79] "However, copper is implicated as providing the active sites for the catalysis."
          [80] "Also, that the material activated in oxygen gave higher propane conversion rates than those activated in inert gas atmosphere underscores the role of the surface oxide (oxygen species) in the catalysis."
          [81] "Thus, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may be invoked here, and the redox property of the metal center is likely to play a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C."
          [82] "This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."

[3] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [4] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [5] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [6] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [7] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [8] "The pore size is also considered to have a slight effect on the catalytic activity, i.e., lower activation barriers for reactions in zeolites with larger pore size."
          [9] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [10] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [11] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [12] "Although the general trend of catalytic activity is not as easy to be addressed for these as for metal systems, the case studies still shed light on dehydrogenation mechanisms in these systems, and more insights emerge which are normally difficult to be explored at molecular level even by the most advanced experimental equipment."
          [13] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [14] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [15] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [16] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [17] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [18] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [19] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [20] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [21] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
          [22] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."

[1] "PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month."
          [2] "The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one."
          [3] "Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles."
          [4] "Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time."
          [5] "The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited."
          [6] "Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts."
          [7] "Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH."
          [8] "The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites."
          [9] "Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent."
          [10] "The resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH."



Al2O3 is one of the most commonly used supports in heterogeneous catalysis due to its structural advantages and stability.
          The coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites present on the (100) facets of commercial γ-Al2O3 can serve as anchor sites to anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites.
          The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 can allow the tetrahedral Ga3+ cations to highly disperse in the spinel-type γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 solid solution, leading to an enhanced activity and stability in PDH reaction.
          The γ-Al2O3 nanosheet containing 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites has been proved that it could nicely disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters because of the strong interactions between metals and support.
          This PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent performance at an ultrahigh space velocity in a long-term PDH reaction.
          In addition to being an appropriate support, the hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 showed a high activity of coordinately unsaturated Al3+ as the surface active sites in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene.
          Furthermore, the diversity and complexity on the structure of Al2O3, for example the surface acidity at the low-coordinated Al sites, determined the different properties in the adsorption and the activation of propane as well as coke deposition in the PDH reaction.
          Herein, a one-step hydrothermal method is employed to synthesize sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficiently catalyzing the PDH reaction.
          The structural and catalytic stabilities as well as the CoAl2O3 interaction for these catalysts are benchmarked to an impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst.
          We further illustrate the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in the Co-catalyzed PDH reaction.

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
          [2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
          [3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
          [4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
          [5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
          [6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
          [7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."
          [8] "The introduction of Pt species via impregnation does not change the dispersion of Zn species on Si-Beta support."
          [9] "The close contact between Pt-Zn species and the electronic interaction thereof make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts."

[1] "NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts."
          [2] "NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity."
          [3] "Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds."
          [4] "High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination temperatures of 400500 C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability."

[1] "The stability of the Pt particles at the surface of supports can be greatly enhanced by the manipulation of metal-support interaction [9] ,[10] ."
          [2] "The Al2O3 with coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites can stabilize the atomically dispersed Pt specie via the formation of Al3+ penta-O-Pt bond, which results in anchoring Pt particles at the surface of Al2O3 support."
          [3] "The Pt particles can be tightly stabilized on the heteroatoms in the lattice of oxide substrate [11] ."
          [4] "Small Pt particles stabilized in the lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) produces a highly selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [12] ."
          [5] "Pt particles confined at the Sn single-site in zeolite framework show high catalytic performance in the propane dehydrogenation, and the enhanced performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the strong interaction between the Pt particles and the framework of Sn-zeolite [13] ."
          [6] "The PtSn bimetallic particles are confined in the mesopores, which allow them to become a stable catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at high temperature."
          [7] "The high efficiency of these PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is mainly attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles in the mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite."

Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors.
          β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity.
          The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity.
          Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst.
          Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%.
          The role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41  CrOx/MgO  CrOx/Si-2.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the nature of the support material, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, can affect the dispersion and stability of the active phase, thereby impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The interaction between the support and the active phase can also alter the electronic properties of the catalyst, which can further enhance its performance. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can reduce surface acidity and increase the number of active sites, while using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.

<!-- Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results -->

[1] "The physicochemical properties of catalysts have a significant impact on their catalytic behaviors. Chemical qualities, including acid strength and hydrothermal and pH stability, affect the selectivity toward the targeted alkene in dehydrogenation reactions, while the morphological and porous qualities can influence the diffusion efficiency."
          [2] "In this section, strategies focused on support modification for dehydrogenation catalysts are summarized (Table 3)."
          [3] "PDH is an acid-sensitive reaction, which signifies that proper acidity of the support is preferable for CH activation and propylene desorption, while unduly strong acidity, on the other hand, can generate a negative impact on the PDH process, possibly leading to CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation."
          [4] "As for zeolites, the Lewis acid sites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while the Brnsted acid sites are inductive factors in catalyzing cleavage reactions."
          [5] "For heterogeneous catalysts, one kinetic factor, the diffusion efficiency of the reactants and products, which is determined by the morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties of the supports, should be taken into consideration."
          [6] "Several strategies are proposed, focusing on shortening the diffusion path or diffusion resistance, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces, e.g., needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures."

[1] "Different characterization techniques including H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, C3H6-TPD, XPS, BET, CO-chemisorption, CO-DRIFT, and TGA were used to unravel the properties of catalysts."
          [2] "Enhanced propylene selectivity (98.5% Vs 96.4% @ 600 C and 24 h TOS) and catalyst stability were achieved due to the decrease of acid centers of Al2O3 along with an increase of the degree of alloy formation upon addition of Ca."
          [3] "The experimental data of propane conversion vs. time were successfully fitted with the Deactivation Model with Residual Activity (DMRA), allowing for the calculation of the intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters for both catalysts."
          [4] "For the Ca-promoted catalyst, a deactivation function of 0.05 h1 along with a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C were obtained."
          [5] "Whereas, for the non-promoted sample, these values were 0.22 h1 and 0.63, respectively."
          [6] "The activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Pt0.5-Ge1.5/Al2O3-CaO catalyst was slightly higher than that of the unmodified one (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to the enhanced reduction of the GeOx species on this sample, which enhanced the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, decreasing the initial activity of the catalyst."
          [7] "However, the higher resistance against the deactivation by coke of the promoted catalyst was invoked to explain the better performance of this catalyst in terms both of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions."

The Lewis acid site arising from the unsaturated AlIII site in the Al2O3 structure is the active site for the catalytic cycle.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst shows the highest yield, which delivers an initial conversion of 48% and selectivity of 83%.
          A majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The formation of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.

[1] "The synthesis procedure employed a diammonium-type bromide surfactant [C18H37N(CH3)2C6H12N(CH3)2C4H9Br2] and a sodium-free silica source."
          [2] "The presence of silanol nests in the resultant zeolite was confirmed by IR and NMR spectroscopies."
          [3] "When the zeolite was supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y using nitrate precursors, a remarkably long catalytic lifetime of 20 days was obtained with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under the reaction condition using neat propane gas at 853 K."
          [4] "The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles exhibited fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption behavior at room temperature, whereas the monometallic Pt nanoparticles showed only partially reversible chemisorption (4050% reversibility) due to the formation of a strong Pt-H bond."
          [5] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts were even superior to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of catalytic durability."
          [6] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 d as mentioned above, but PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl was deactivated within 1 d, similar to that of Pt(0.5)/MZ-sc."
          [7] "The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite."
          [8] "The HAADF-STEM images show that the metal nanoparticles were homogeneously distributed throughout the support material in all cases."
          [9] "The size of the metal particles was approximately 2 nm for all four samples."
          [10] "The EDS analysis results confirmed that these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Y in the same particle."
          [11] "The average atomic ratio of Pt to Y was determined to be approximately 3 for both PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br samples, which agrees well with the Pt/Y ratio of Pt3Y intermetallic alloys supported on MZ-dg in a previous study."
          [12] "The conversion-vs-time plot in Fig. 6 a shows that the three PtY(0.5) catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period (12 h) to reach the full conversion."
          [13] "The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value (42% at 853 K) during the early reaction period (e.g., < 7 d in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br)."
          [14] "The TGA profile for the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst showed that 37 wt% of coke species were deposited on the catalyst sample."
          [15] "The measured spacing value of 0.403 nm corresponding to the Pt3Y L12 superlattice closely matched the known value of the Pt3Y bulk structure (i.e., 0.400 nm taken from PDF 00017-0058)."
          [16] "The results show that there is an inverse relationship between the propane conversion and the metal loading amount when the catalysts were fully activated."
          [17] "The conversion-vs-loading relationship appears to originate from increasing metal dispersion (or decreasing particle size) at low loadings."
          [18] "The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading appears to be due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst."

"CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."

The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. The experimental parameters had a beneficial effect on the concentration of Zrcus4+ ions, and the concentration of surface lattice oxygen, which in tandem play an active role in propane activation.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.
The preparation of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt.
The enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
The stability was improved in the presence of CO2 (compared to DDH); ca. 74% of the original activity was retained after 10 h on-stream, which is relatively good compared to Ga- and Cr-based catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
The role of CO2 in ODH-CO2 is to assist the above equilibrium by removing H2via the RWGS reaction.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
The initial STY of this catalyst was 10.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 13, entry 4), which is amongst the most active reported to date, but requires significant improvements to its on-stream stability.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 (Table 13) and some Ga2O3 catalysts (Table 12).
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
The authors concluded that the relative proportions of V3+, V4+ and V5+ species present on the catalyst surface were affected by V loading and at the optimal loading of 12 wt%, a high concentration of isolated V3+ species was detected.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
The combined and synergistic effect of the surface acidity modifications, their influence on the active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitated desorption of propene and inhibited the deep dehydrogenation that leads to coke precursors.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The highest STY achieved was 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 7).
The moderate vanadium doping level was conducive to highly dispersed vanadium species in the form of isolated and low-polymerized VOx species.
Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability.
The STY was 6.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 5), due to the low GHSV so while the catalyst achieved high selectivity at reasonable propane conversion, it was not as intrinsically active as other supported VOx catalysts.
The most active catalyst, V/Si-beta (having 3 wt% V loading) displayed an initial propene yield of 33.4% and retained activity over multiple dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The STY was 4.4 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 6), which is 56 times less active than the most active VOx catalysts reported to date, suggesting that Si-beta does not facilitate a high concentration of active V sites.
It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).
The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species.
For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C.
This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported.
The STY of ZrO2 without VOx is actually much higher than in the current work.
The most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method.
The role of the other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear so further work to elucidate this could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.
The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels.
The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation.
The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.
The preparation of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.
The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond.
The metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.
The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
It was found that over 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2, the propene yield increased from 6.5% to 9.1% when CO2 was co-fed instead of Ar.
In contrast, the alumina supported catalyst was inhibited by the addition of CO2, as shown by the drop in propene yield from 12.7% to 3.3%.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/AC material was unaffected by CO2 addition.
The Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
Relative to many other metal oxides, Cr2O3 is considered to be one of the most promising catalysts for ODH-CO2.
Takehira et al. compared the catalytic performance of several d block and p block oxides (namely Cr, Ga, Ni, V, Fe, Mn and Co) supported on MCM-41, at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 molar ratio of 5.6.
After 30 min on-stream, the propene yield of the Cr-based catalyst was 15% whereas for the Ga-based counterpart it was 5%.
The remaining catalysts all exhibited lower propene yields (in the 14% range).
However, as the catalysts were not characterised, it is unclear if the dispersion of these catalysts was comparable, and therefore if the results reflect the true intrinsic activity of each metal.
It was also noted that the order of reactivity resembled the trends observed by Nakagawa et al. for diamond-supported metal catalysts in the DDH reaction.
This suggests that there are commonalities in catalyst design between DDH and ODH-CO2 which most likely relate to the interaction of the alkane with the catalyst.
Contrary to this, Zhang et al. compared ZrO2, SBA-15 and γ-Al2O3 as supports for Cr2O3 in the DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions.
They found that the highest propene yield was observed with different catalyst systems under different dehydrogenation reactions, i.e., the activity trends in DDH did not translate to ODH-CO2 catalysts.
Specifically, Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was the most active for the DDH reaction, while the highest yield of propene for the ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions was observed over Cr2O3/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 7).
Across all the catalysts however, the highest propene yields were generally observed in the DDH reaction, ascribed to the production of carbon oxides in the ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 reactions.
However, it was reported that Cr2O3/ZrO2 was more stable on-stream in ODH-CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
Wu et al. also observed increased stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2 in the presence of CO2 (Table 11, entry 4).
They reported that the CO formation rate was higher than the CO2 consumption rate and the excess CO was suggested to originate from the Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C  2CO); this could explain the increased stability of this catalyst.
It is possible that some dry reforming of propane also took place, which would produce H2 and CO.
Zhao et al. recently reported the facile preparation of Cr supported in mesoporous ZrO2 using an evaporation-induced self-assembly method (Table 11, entry 6).
The authors suggested that propene could react with carbon dioxide to form carbon monoxide, methane and water.
Other studies have reported a stronger inhibition effect for Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2.
For instance, Ferreira et al. studied the adsorption properties of CO2 and concluded that it binds strongly to active Cr2O3 sites, lowering the activity and stability of the catalyst,
whereas Xie et al. suggested that coke formation could originate from CO2 hydrogenation over Cr2+ species.
These conflicting reports may relate to the structural polymorph of ZrO2 present in the catalyst support; this factor is often overlooked, but recent studies from Kondratenko et al. revealed that nanocrystalline ZrO2 is an active DDH catalyst in its own right151,152 under similar reaction conditions.
The ZrO2 crystal phase and crystallite size were strongly correlated to the catalyst activity: smaller crystallites were more active but amorphous ZrO2 had very low intrinsic activity.
Moreover, monoclinic ZrO2 was more active than tetragonal ZrO2.
Cr2O3-catalysed ODH-CO2 has been examined over different polymorphs of SiO2,254256 including various structured porous oxides, including SBA-1,84 SBA-15,250,257 MCM-41,91 amorphous silica84 and mesoporous silica spheres.258
Notably, Michorczyk et al. reported a detailed comparison of different silica supports, coupled with an in-depth characterisation study.84
It was shown that in each case, the same active Cr species was formed, namely Cr6+, but higher surface area silicas (e.g., SBA-1 and SBA-15) were able to facilitate a higher number of such sites.
A clear correlation was found between the rate of propene formation and the wt% of Cr6+, as determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).
In DDH, while Cr6+ is considered active, under reaction conditions Cr3+ is rapidly formed and considered the principle active species.93,94
The selectivity to propene was similar across the different silica supports (8893%), with the observed differences being attributable to differences in propane conversion rather than catalytic properties.
These Cr2O3/SiO2 catalysts were highly active at 550 C and the most active catalyst (Cr2O3/SBA-1) achieved a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, as shown in Table 11, entry 12.
It should be noted that the experiments were carried out with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 5, which as discussed above, has been shown to enable a higher equilibrium yield of propene.
Therefore, in studies where high conversions are generally targeted and carbon dioxide is in excess of propane, higher propene yields are reported.
Takehira et al. carried out X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) on CrOx/MCM-41, confirming that the reduction of Cr6+ occurs during the reaction.91
Specifically, they identified Cr6+O4 tetrahedra as the active species.
These Cr3+O6 octahedra were formed after reduction, which were considered to be less active.
It was shown that CO2 could re-oxidise the Cr, which suggests that the redox cycle between Cr6+ and Cr3+ is an important process during the reaction.
Yi et al. discriminated between isolated Cr6+ and polymeric Cr6+, finding that after reduction, isolated Cr3+ was more active than polymeric Cr3+. This underlines the importance of Cr dispersion in these catalysts.259
In a more detailed examination of Cr2O3/SBA-1, the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the catalyst and the observed activity were explored.85
Michorczyk et al. found a strong positive correlation between the initial propene yield and the reducibility of the catalyst, specifically the H2 consumption.
In situ UV-vis measurements revealed that Cr6+ is rapidly reduced to Cr3+ or Cr2+ in the presence of C3H8 under reaction conditions.
The reaction proceeds through a Mars-Van Krevelen mechanism, via the Cr2+/3+ redox couple.
Rapid deactivation, typical of Cr2O3 catalysts, was observed, although the majority of the initial activity could be recovered after regeneration in air.
The remainder was ascribed to pore collapse and/or the formation of inactive Cr sites, although the loss of surface Cr sites through agglomeration was not considered.
Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260
The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene.
While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air.
This severely limits the utility of this catalyst.
Zeolites have also been considered as catalyst supports for Cr2O3.
Zhang et al. prepared CrOx/Na-ZSM-5 via incipient wetness.261
Although the initial conversion and selectivity was high (48% and 86%, respectively) (Table 11, entry 5), the catalysts deactivated rapidly and the reaction conditions were such that the STY was only 2.5 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 2.
Zhu et al. investigated a range of MFI supports, including silicalite-1 and H[B]MFI.262
CrOx/H[B]MFI was found to be the most active catalyst, giving a STY of 4.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C with a CO2:C3H8 of 1 (Table 11, entry 15).
Although the as-prepared catalyst exhibited typically poor stability for Cr catalysts, steam treating the catalyst resulted in a marked improvement.
After 60 h on-stream, the as-prepared catalyst retained only 25% of its initial conversion, while the steam treated catalyst retained ca. 74%.
The authors ascribed the effect to stabilised Cr3+ formed in the steam treatment.
Presumably the reduction of Cr6+ during the reaction results in an inactive or less active Cr3+ species.
It should also be noted that the as-prepared catalyst was initially almost twice as active as the steam treated catalyst, which leaves the possibility that at higher conversions, increased coke formation may have occurred which would exaggerate the deactivation compared to the steam treated catalyst.
Ideally such stability comparisons would be made at isoconversion, however this discovery is one of only a few that shows improved stability on-stream.
Recently, Michorczyk et al. prepared a Cr-β-zeolite and investigated the effect of dealumination, which clearly elucidated the effect of acidity on the catalytic performance.263
It was reported that the dealuminated catalyst, Cr-SiBeta, exhibited significantly higher propene yields (up to 27%), compared to the Al-containing catalyst, Cr-AlBeta (2%).
The presence of acid sites in the Cr-AlBeta catalyst resulted in cracking pathways that led to increased production of methane and ethene.
Moreover, the CrAlbeta catalyst performed less well in the presence of CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
This was explained by the strong adsorption of CO2 on the catalyst, similar to the inhibition observed over Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts.
The stability of the dealuminated catalyst was also improved compared with CrAlbeta, but significant loss in activity was observed over the 4 h reaction.
In considering the redox properties of the catalysts in this work, and their previous investigations, the authors also identified a strong correlation between the H2 consumption from H2-TPR studies and the reported propene yield, as shown in Fig. 10.
While the majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial.
Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264
After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream.
In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period.
Using three-stage H2-TPR experiments (where the catalyst is reduced twice under H2 and then re-oxidised in CO2 before the final H2-TPR program), the authors showed that the addition of Ni facilitated the re-oxidation of Cr during the reaction.
This is consistent with previously reported mechanisms of deactivation over Cr-based catalysts, although coking is also often reported to cause deactivation.
Interestingly, the promoted catalyst was marginally more prone to coking.
This strongly suggests that overreduction of active Cr sites is the key deactivation mechanism over these catalysts.
There is a lot of potential to develop promoted Cr catalysts that could enhance the redox activity of the catalyst; precious metals including Pd and Pt are often supported on reducible supports for this purpose.265
Crucially, it was found that above 0.5 wt% Ni, propane reforming was prevalent, which underlines the importance of appropriate loadings of promotors.
O'Brien et al. investigated the effect of a Ru promoter to a 10 wt% CrOx/SiO2 catalyst.
Consistent with Yun et al. it was shown that the propene formation rate was increased.
A 1 wt% Ru loading was optimal and doubled the activity.
Interestingly, this is approximately the same molar ratio reported as the optimum by Yun et al. for Ni-promoted CrOx/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 14).
Another similarity was the propensity of reforming to dominate at high loadings (>1 wt%).
The enhanced stability seen in Ni-promoted Cr catalysts was not observed in this work and the activity could not be fully recovered after regeneration.
Consequently, aggregation of Cr species was suggested as an additional deactivation mechanism in addition to coke formation and overreduction of Cr.
Rather than aid Cr re-oxidation in a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation, the authors concluded that the Ru promotes the RWGS reaction, which removes H2 and increases the equilibrium conversion of propane.
However, the results of three-stage H2-TPR reactions indicated that Cr can be more easily oxidised in the presence of Ru, which suggests that Ru can participate in a similar role as Ni-promoted Cr catalysts.
Overall supported chromium oxide catalysts represent one of the most active classes of ODH-CO2 catalysts, with STY values in the range of 222 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
The correct balance of acidic and basic sites is a key consideration in catalyst design.
Equally, the ratio of carbon dioxide to propane is important to take in account, as it has kinetic and thermodynamic implications.
Thermodynamically, higher CO2:C3H8 ratios limit coke forming side-reactions.
The addition of CO2 in the dehydrogenation reaction has multiple effects: As discussed in Section 2, it facilitates the RWGS reaction which removes H2 from the system and shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium limit to favour propene production.
Additionally, CO2 can dissociate on the surface of a catalyst and provide O species to dehydrogenate propane directly.
Finally, it can react with coke via the reverse-Boudouard reaction to produce CO, which can potentially extend the lifetime of the catalyst.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial.
Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial, Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
Using NH3-TPD analysis, the authors concluded that weak Lewis acid sites were conducive to high activity.
These acidbase properties most likely contribute to the enhanced stability as well; it is known that stronger acid sites promote oligomerisation pathways that produce coke.
The increased performance of Ga2O3/ZSM-48 was attributed to the abundance of weak and medium strength acid sites.
The low activity of Ga2O3/MgO and Ga2O3/SiO2 was ascribed to the absence of medium and strong acid sites.
In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced.
This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
It was found that 10 mol% Fe in CeO2 exhibited the highest propene yield.
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
They showed that reforming pathways were more prevalent at higher CO2:C3H8 ratios, such as 2.5:1 and 5:1.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 and some Ga2O3 catalysts.
The number of studies on supported nanoparticle catalysts for ODH-CO2 are relatively few and those available indicate that this field of research has great potential.
The major challenge is in understanding and inhibiting side-reactions such as reforming, which are known to proceed over this class of catalyst, unlike in Cr- and Ga-based catalysts.
Careful consideration of the nanostructure and composition has shown that the selectivity can be readily tuned to favour different pathways, and further investigation in this area may well be able to harness the high activity of supported nanoparticles as well as favour dehydrogenation pathways.
Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental.
The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America.
The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale.
With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
The majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%).
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.
The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst.
The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [2] "The extent of PtSn interactions depends on the impregnation sequence of Pt and Sn precursors on the support material."
          [3] "The framework of microporous zeolites exerts dispersive forces on the reactant's molecules that depend on the shape, channel and cavity of the framework."
          [4] "In addition, the nature and the density of the active sites influence the framework dispersion forces."
          [5] "Recent reports have shown that the strong electrostatic field between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species can enhance and/or induce polarization of bonds in hydrocarbon adsorbates."
          [6] "This agrees with Hashiguchi et al. [26] , who found enhanced activation of the CH bond on a homogeneous catalyst."
          [7] "Wender et al. [27] showed that 3040% of heat adsorption in n-alkanes on Na-zeolite is due to polarization of the adsorbates."
          [8] "Subbotina et al. [28] also demonstrated that the CH bond of ethane is more strongly polarized on Mg2 + and Ca2 + forms of Y zeolite than on Na+ forms."
          [9] "Based on charge density considerations, Mg2 + cations are expected to exhibit a stronger polarizing effect than Ca2 + cations."
          [10] "Subbotina et al. explain that because of the smaller ionic radius of Mg2 +, it is more strongly shielded by the surrounding oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice than a Ca2 + ion, thereby reducing the polarizing effect of Mg2 + on the hydrocarbon adsorbate."
          [11] "Sievers et al. [29] ,[30] also report that the La3 + form of X zeolite induces strong polarization of adsorbed alkane molecules; partial positive charges were induced on secondary and tertiary carbon atoms of alkane molecules."
          [12] "The authors suggest that the polarization may be viewed as an intermediate condition to hydride abstraction (which is an important elementary step in CH activation)."
          [13] "They add that CH bond polarization was enhanced by physisorbed water molecules that coordinate with La3 + cations."
          [14] "The enhanced polarization of CH bonds by the presence of water molecules on La3 +X zeolite may have a beneficial effect in oxidative dehydrogenation where water is a by-product."
          [15] "Alkane polarization studies on Na+, Mg2 +, Ca2 +, and La3 + exchanged X-zeolites indicate that the polarizing effect increases with increasing charge magnitude and ionic radius."
          [16] "Note that these alkane polarizing cations occupy the same position on the zeolites as the well-known CH activation cations/metals, and thus the CH polarizing effect has a complementary effect on CH activation."
          [17] "This may add to the number of relevant variables and increase the challenge of optimizing the ratio of activation/polarizing cations among exchangeable sites (Si/Al ratio), as well as the sequence for incorporating the cations or metals during catalyst preparation."
          [18] "Further, it is important to note that the choice of cations should be such that they exhibit no catalytic (oligomerization, isomerization, aromatisation or oxidation) effects on the target alkene products at the reaction condition."
          [19] "Furthermore, it may be beneficial to create a CH polarization effect on the zeolite framework."
          [20] "This can be achieved by appropriate chance of framework atoms."
          [21] "Since active sites are usually created on the zeolite frameworks."
          [22] "The active sites (alkoxide intermediate) of the bimolecular pathway are formed in situ ( Scheme 1 )."
          [23] "The alkoxide intermediate is made up of an alkyl carbenium ion ionically held to the zeolite framework oxygen ion."
          [24] "The active sites of the unimolecular pathway are the charge balancing protons of the zeolite framework."
          [25] "A proton and a carbenium ion are an electrophilic or Lewis acid species (a proton can also be considered as a special case of Lewis acidity)."
          [26] "The two pathways essentially involve electrophilic CH activation."
          [27] "The electrophiles (proton and carbenium ion) activate CH at high temperatures (500 C), giving low conversion rates of light alkanes and poor selectivity to corresponding alkenes."
          [28] "The elementary steps of CH activation on OGa+ ( Scheme 2 ) reveal that a redox cycle at the metal center is required for catalytic CH activation via the oxidative addition mechanism."
          [29] "A redox cycle is not apparent in the elementary step presented for CH activation on OZn2+O."
          [30] "Hence, a redox cycle is not a requisite for CH activation via the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism."
          [31] "However, under alkane dehydrogenation reaction conditions, the OZn2+O sites can undergo a reversible Zn2 +/Zn redox process ( Scheme 3 )."
          [32] "This redox process increases the availability of undesired protonic site intermediates."
          [33] "Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 prepared by conventional ion-exchange methods contain a significant percentage of unexchanged proton sites leading to lower alkene selectivity of the catalyst."
          [34] "Iglesia and Biscardi [59] titrate the proton sites with NaOH."
          [35] "The un-titrated and the titrated catalysts are denoted as Zn/H-ZSMS-5 and Zn/Na-ZSMS-5, respectively."
          [36] "Zn/Na-ZSM-5 has four times the propane conversion rate and a higher propene selectivity than Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [37] "The propene formation rate obtained with Zn/Na-ZSM-5 was ten times that of Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [38] "The zinc species at the cation exchange site of the zeolite was identified as OZn+OH."
          [39] "The higher propene selectivity obtained on Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is presumably from the lower density and availability of proton sites on Zn/Na-ZSM-5."
          [40] "The improved propane conversion rate of Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is attributable to the higher efficiency of OZn+OH sites in catalyzing desorption of H-adatoms than OZn2+O sites."
          [41] "Another strategy to enhance alkene selectivity is by controlling the strength of the proton sites."
          [42] "The acidity of the sites depends on the nature of the trivalent cation of the zeolite framework."
          [43] "Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker than those of aluminosilicate [60] ,[61] ,[62] ,[63] ,[64] , and thus higher alkene selectivity is expected for alkane dehydrogenation over Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H[Al]-ZSM-5."
          [44] "However, Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows no activity for propane dehydrogenation."
          [45] "The desired weaker acidity of the proton sites of Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 requires weaker basicity of the oxygen atoms in the zeolite framework."
          [46] "This reduced basicity of the oxygen atoms is not sufficiently polarizing to complement the exchanged Zn2 + in CH bond cleavage."
          [47] "In the next section, we examine use of zeolite support to design a Pt-based alkane dehydrogenation catalyst."
          [48] "Elimination of the proton sites of zeolites is critical for obtaining a high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts."
          [49] "Pt is the most versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions [65] ."
          [50] "Although Pt is expensive, the choice of Pt is often justified by its higher activity, stability and selectivity for these reactions compared to less expensive alternative transition metals."
          [51] "However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge even when using a Pt-based catalyst for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [52] "Waku et al. [66] exploited the unique property of zeolite as a support for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites to create a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [53] "They found that the catalyst deactivation rate of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was lower than for any other Pt-based catalysts in refractory oxide support."
          [54] "The unprecedented performance of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was attributed to its high Pt dispersion (cluster size < 1 mm) on zeolite through ion-exchange."
          [55] "There is a tendency to generate some Brnsted protons on the zeolite during the exchange process, but the choice of Fe3 + as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3 + led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM."
          [56] "The weaker acidity minimizes the tendency of side reactions (cracking of oligomerization, aromatisation, and coke), which translates into higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability."
          [57] "In another report, Xuebing and Iglesia [67] demonstrated the ability of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 to dehydrogenate alkanes longer than C4; n-pentane and n-heptane were selectively converted to n-pentene and n-heptene, respectively."
          [58] "Alkene selectivity was also improved when the residual proton generated during Pt exchange or Na-[Fe]-ZSM was titrated with Cs [67] ."
          [59] "Although Pt with conventional refractory oxides (Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, etc.) used for dehydrogenation of alkanes has similar conversion rates to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, deactivation rates are also rapid due to coke formation."
          [60] "The presence of acid (Bronsted and Lewis) sites on the supports promotes readsorption, oligomerization and aromatisation of alkenes."
          [61] "Promotion of Pt with metals, such as Sn, Ga, Zn, Re, etc., improves catalyst stability, but also leads to faster deactivation rates than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [62] "However, recent reports by Bell et al. [68] ,[69] ,[70] show that the use of calcined hydrotalcite (Al/Mg  0.1) supported on bimetallic PtGa or PtSn gave very high alkene selectivity and stability, comparable to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [63] "At this stage, we can conclude that differences in the performance of Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 obtained by Kanansky et al. [53] are attributable to their respective CH activation mechanisms."
          [64] "In addition, the role of exchanged Zn and Ga as promoters of RD becomes evident from the mechanisms ( Scheme 2 )."
          [65] "The RD mechanism on Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 is by reductive elimination of a hydrogen molecule from O[Ga(H)2]+ intermediate."
          [66] "Decomposition of ZnR and a protonic site, or neutralization of the proton sites by ZnH, leads to desorption of the hydrogen molecule on the Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5."
          [67] "By extrapolation, the mechanisms of CH activation on exchanged Zn and Ga H-ZSM-5 can described the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on Cr-based and Pt-based catalysts respectively."
          [68] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
          [69] "However, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism could also explain the proposed CH activation on Cr-based catalysts."
          [70] "Now, the nature and the role of surface oxygen species become more evident."
          [71] "The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity."
          [72] "The highlights in this section are presented in Table 2 ."
          [73] "The table reveals the insights achieved on the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity and catalyst stability for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [74] "Nonetheless, the level of catalyst activity is still far from acceptable, even at high temperature."
          [75] "A recent report by Rothenberg et al. [71] provides a lead in this respect."
          [76] "Their report indicates that a porous copperaluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance (activity/selectivity/stability) for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3."
          [77] "Of particular interest, is the suggestion that achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C may be possible."
          [78] "Few details are known about the structure of the porous copperaluminum framework material."
          [79] "However, copper is implicated as providing the active sites for the catalysis."
          [80] "Also, that the material activated in oxygen gave higher propane conversion rates than those activated in inert gas atmosphere underscores the role of the surface oxide (oxygen species) in the catalysis."
          [81] "Thus, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may be invoked here, and the redox property of the metal center is likely to play a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C."
          [82] "This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."

[3] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [4] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [5] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [6] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [7] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [8] "The pore size is also considered to have a slight effect on the catalytic activity, i.e., lower activation barriers for reactions in zeolites with larger pore size."
          [9] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [10] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [11] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [12] "Although the general trend of catalytic activity is not as easy to be addressed for these as for metal systems, the case studies still shed light on dehydrogenation mechanisms in these systems, and more insights emerge which are normally difficult to be explored at molecular level even by the most advanced experimental equipment."
          [13] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [14] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [15] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [16] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [17] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [18] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [19] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [20] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [21] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
          [22] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."

[1] "PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month."
          [2] "The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one."
          [3] "Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles."
          [4] "Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time."
          [5] "The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited."
          [6] "Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts."
          [7] "Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH."
          [8] "The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites."
          [9] "Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent."
          [10] "The resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH."



Al2O3 is one of the most commonly used supports in heterogeneous catalysis due to its structural advantages and stability.
          The coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites present on the (100) facets of commercial γ-Al2O3 can serve as anchor sites to anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites.
          The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 can allow the tetrahedral Ga3+ cations to highly disperse in the spinel-type γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 solid solution, leading to an enhanced activity and stability in PDH reaction.
          The γ-Al2O3 nanosheet containing 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites has been proved that it could nicely disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters because of the strong interactions between metals and support.
          This PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent performance at an ultrahigh space velocity in a long-term PDH reaction.
          In addition to being an appropriate support, the hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 showed a high activity of coordinately unsaturated Al3+ as the surface active sites in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene.
          Furthermore, the diversity and complexity on the structure of Al2O3, for example the surface acidity at the low-coordinated Al sites, determined the different properties in the adsorption and the activation of propane as well as coke deposition in the PDH reaction.
          Herein, a one-step hydrothermal method is employed to synthesize sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficiently catalyzing the PDH reaction.
          The structural and catalytic stabilities as well as the CoAl2O3 interaction for these catalysts are benchmarked to an impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst.
          We further illustrate the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in the Co-catalyzed PDH reaction.

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
          [2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
          [3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
          [4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
          [5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
          [6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
          [7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."
          [8] "The introduction of Pt species via impregnation does not change the dispersion of Zn species on Si-Beta support."
          [9] "The close contact between Pt-Zn species and the electronic interaction thereof make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts."

[1] "NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts."
          [2] "NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity."
          [3] "Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds."
          [4] "High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination temperatures of 400500 C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability."

[1] "The stability of the Pt particles at the surface of supports can be greatly enhanced by the manipulation of metal-support interaction [9] ,[10] ."
          [2] "The Al2O3 with coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites can stabilize the atomically dispersed Pt specie via the formation of Al3+ penta-O-Pt bond, which results in anchoring Pt particles at the surface of Al2O3 support."
          [3] "The Pt particles can be tightly stabilized on the heteroatoms in the lattice of oxide substrate [11] ."
          [4] "Small Pt particles stabilized in the lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) produces a highly selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [12] ."
          [5] "Pt particles confined at the Sn single-site in zeolite framework show high catalytic performance in the propane dehydrogenation, and the enhanced performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the strong interaction between the Pt particles and the framework of Sn-zeolite [13] ."
          [6] "The PtSn bimetallic particles are confined in the mesopores, which allow them to become a stable catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at high temperature."
          [7] "The high efficiency of these PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is mainly attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles in the mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite."

Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors.
          β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity.
          The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity.
          Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst.
          Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%.
          The role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41  CrOx/MgO  CrOx/Si-2.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the nature of the support material, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, can affect the dispersion and stability of the active phase, thereby impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The interaction between the support and the active phase can also alter the electronic properties of the catalyst, which can further enhance its performance. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can reduce surface acidity and increase the number of active sites, while using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.

<!-- Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results -->

[1] "The physicochemical properties of catalysts have a significant impact on their catalytic behaviors. Chemical qualities, including acid strength and hydrothermal and pH stability, affect the selectivity toward the targeted alkene in dehydrogenation reactions, while the morphological and porous qualities can influence the diffusion efficiency."
          [2] "In this section, strategies focused on support modification for dehydrogenation catalysts are summarized (Table 3)."
          [3] "PDH is an acid-sensitive reaction, which signifies that proper acidity of the support is preferable for CH activation and propylene desorption, while unduly strong acidity, on the other hand, can generate a negative impact on the PDH process, possibly leading to CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation."
          [4] "As for zeolites, the Lewis acid sites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while the Brnsted acid sites are inductive factors in catalyzing cleavage reactions."
          [5] "For heterogeneous catalysts, one kinetic factor, the diffusion efficiency of the reactants and products, which is determined by the morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties of the supports, should be taken into consideration."
          [6] "Several strategies are proposed, focusing on shortening the diffusion path or diffusion resistance, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces, e.g., needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures."

[1] "Different characterization techniques including H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, C3H6-TPD, XPS, BET, CO-chemisorption, CO-DRIFT, and TGA were used to unravel the properties of catalysts."
          [2] "Enhanced propylene selectivity (98.5% Vs 96.4% @ 600 C and 24 h TOS) and catalyst stability were achieved due to the decrease of acid centers of Al2O3 along with an increase of the degree of alloy formation upon addition of Ca."
          [3] "The experimental data of propane conversion vs. time were successfully fitted with the Deactivation Model with Residual Activity (DMRA), allowing for the calculation of the intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters for both catalysts."
          [4] "For the Ca-promoted catalyst, a deactivation function of 0.05 h1 along with a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C were obtained."
          [5] "Whereas, for the non-promoted sample, these values were 0.22 h1 and 0.63, respectively."
          [6] "The activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Pt0.5-Ge1.5/Al2O3-CaO catalyst was slightly higher than that of the unmodified one (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to the enhanced reduction of the GeOx species on this sample, which enhanced the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, decreasing the initial activity of the catalyst."
          [7] "However, the higher resistance against the deactivation by coke of the promoted catalyst was invoked to explain the better performance of this catalyst in terms both of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions."

The Lewis acid site arising from the unsaturated AlIII site in the Al2O3 structure is the active site for the catalytic cycle.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst shows the highest yield, which delivers an initial conversion of 48% and selectivity of 83%.
          A majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The formation of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.

[1] "The synthesis procedure employed a diammonium-type bromide surfactant [C18H37N(CH3)2C6H12N(CH3)2C4H9Br2] and a sodium-free silica source."
          [2] "The presence of silanol nests in the resultant zeolite was confirmed by IR and NMR spectroscopies."
          [3] "When the zeolite was supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y using nitrate precursors, a remarkably long catalytic lifetime of 20 days was obtained with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under the reaction condition using neat propane gas at 853 K."
          [4] "The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles exhibited fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption behavior at room temperature, whereas the monometallic Pt nanoparticles showed only partially reversible chemisorption (4050% reversibility) due to the formation of a strong Pt-H bond."
          [5] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts were even superior to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of catalytic durability."
          [6] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 d as mentioned above, but PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl was deactivated within 1 d, similar to that of Pt(0.5)/MZ-sc."
          [7] "The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite."
          [8] "The HAADF-STEM images show that the metal nanoparticles were homogeneously distributed throughout the support material in all cases."
          [9] "The size of the metal particles was approximately 2 nm for all four samples."
          [10] "The EDS analysis results confirmed that these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Y in the same particle."
          [11] "The average atomic ratio of Pt to Y was determined to be approximately 3 for both PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br samples, which agrees well with the Pt/Y ratio of Pt3Y intermetallic alloys supported on MZ-dg in a previous study."
          [12] "The conversion-vs-time plot in Fig. 6 a shows that the three PtY(0.5) catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period (12 h) to reach the full conversion."
          [13] "The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value (42% at 853 K) during the early reaction period (e.g., < 7 d in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br)."
          [14] "The TGA profile for the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst showed that 37 wt% of coke species were deposited on the catalyst sample."
          [15] "The measured spacing value of 0.403 nm corresponding to the Pt3Y L12 superlattice closely matched the known value of the Pt3Y bulk structure (i.e., 0.400 nm taken from PDF 00017-0058)."
          [16] "The results show that there is an inverse relationship between the propane conversion and the metal loading amount when the catalysts were fully activated."
          [17] "The conversion-vs-loading relationship appears to originate from increasing metal dispersion (or decreasing particle size) at low loadings."
          [18] "The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading appears to be due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst."

"CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."

The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. The experimental parameters had a beneficial effect on the concentration of Zrcus4+ ions, and the concentration of surface lattice oxygen, which in tandem play an active role in propane activation.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.
The preparation of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt.
The enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
The stability was improved in the presence of CO2 (compared to DDH); ca. 74% of the original activity was retained after 10 h on-stream, which is relatively good compared to Ga- and Cr-based catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
The role of CO2 in ODH-CO2 is to assist the above equilibrium by removing H2via the RWGS reaction.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
The initial STY of this catalyst was 10.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 13, entry 4), which is amongst the most active reported to date, but requires significant improvements to its on-stream stability.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 (Table 13) and some Ga2O3 catalysts (Table 12).
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
The authors concluded that the relative proportions of V3+, V4+ and V5+ species present on the catalyst surface were affected by V loading and at the optimal loading of 12 wt%, a high concentration of isolated V3+ species was detected.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
The combined and synergistic effect of the surface acidity modifications, their influence on the active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitated desorption of propene and inhibited the deep dehydrogenation that leads to coke precursors.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The highest STY achieved was 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 7).
The moderate vanadium doping level was conducive to highly dispersed vanadium species in the form of isolated and low-polymerized VOx species.
Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability.
The STY was 6.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 5), due to the low GHSV so while the catalyst achieved high selectivity at reasonable propane conversion, it was not as intrinsically active as other supported VOx catalysts.
The most active catalyst, V/Si-beta (having 3 wt% V loading) displayed an initial propene yield of 33.4% and retained activity over multiple dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The STY was 4.4 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 6), which is 56 times less active than the most active VOx catalysts reported to date, suggesting that Si-beta does not facilitate a high concentration of active V sites.
It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).
The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species.
For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C.
This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported.
The STY of ZrO2 without VOx is actually much higher than in the current work.
The most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method.
The role of the other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear so further work to elucidate this could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.
The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels.
The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation.
The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.
The preparation of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.
The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond.
The metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.
The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
It was found that over 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2, the propene yield increased from 6.5% to 9.1% when CO2 was co-fed instead of Ar.
In contrast, the alumina supported catalyst was inhibited by the addition of CO2, as shown by the drop in propene yield from 12.7% to 3.3%.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/AC material was unaffected by CO2 addition.
The Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
Relative to many other metal oxides, Cr2O3 is considered to be one of the most promising catalysts for ODH-CO2.
Takehira et al. compared the catalytic performance of several d block and p block oxides (namely Cr, Ga, Ni, V, Fe, Mn and Co) supported on MCM-41, at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 molar ratio of 5.6.
After 30 min on-stream, the propene yield of the Cr-based catalyst was 15% whereas for the Ga-based counterpart it was 5%.
The remaining catalysts all exhibited lower propene yields (in the 14% range).
However, as the catalysts were not characterised, it is unclear if the dispersion of these catalysts was comparable, and therefore if the results reflect the true intrinsic activity of each metal.
It was also noted that the order of reactivity resembled the trends observed by Nakagawa et al. for diamond-supported metal catalysts in the DDH reaction.
This suggests that there are commonalities in catalyst design between DDH and ODH-CO2 which most likely relate to the interaction of the alkane with the catalyst.
Contrary to this, Zhang et al. compared ZrO2, SBA-15 and γ-Al2O3 as supports for Cr2O3 in the DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions.
They found that the highest propene yield was observed with different catalyst systems under different dehydrogenation reactions, i.e., the activity trends in DDH did not translate to ODH-CO2 catalysts.
Specifically, Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was the most active for the DDH reaction, while the highest yield of propene for the ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions was observed over Cr2O3/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 7).
Across all the catalysts however, the highest propene yields were generally observed in the DDH reaction, ascribed to the production of carbon oxides in the ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 reactions.
However, it was reported that Cr2O3/ZrO2 was more stable on-stream in ODH-CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
Wu et al. also observed increased stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2 in the presence of CO2 (Table 11, entry 4).
They reported that the CO formation rate was higher than the CO2 consumption rate and the excess CO was suggested to originate from the Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C  2CO); this could explain the increased stability of this catalyst.
It is possible that some dry reforming of propane also took place, which would produce H2 and CO.
Zhao et al. recently reported the facile preparation of Cr supported in mesoporous ZrO2 using an evaporation-induced self-assembly method (Table 11, entry 6).
The authors suggested that propene could react with carbon dioxide to form carbon monoxide, methane and water.
Other studies have reported a stronger inhibition effect for Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2.
For instance, Ferreira et al. studied the adsorption properties of CO2 and concluded that it binds strongly to active Cr2O3 sites, lowering the activity and stability of the catalyst,
whereas Xie et al. suggested that coke formation could originate from CO2 hydrogenation over Cr2+ species.
These conflicting reports may relate to the structural polymorph of ZrO2 present in the catalyst support; this factor is often overlooked, but recent studies from Kondratenko et al. revealed that nanocrystalline ZrO2 is an active DDH catalyst in its own right151,152 under similar reaction conditions.
The ZrO2 crystal phase and crystallite size were strongly correlated to the catalyst activity: smaller crystallites were more active but amorphous ZrO2 had very low intrinsic activity.
Moreover, monoclinic ZrO2 was more active than tetragonal ZrO2.
Cr2O3-catalysed ODH-CO2 has been examined over different polymorphs of SiO2,254256 including various structured porous oxides, including SBA-1,84 SBA-15,250,257 MCM-41,91 amorphous silica84 and mesoporous silica spheres.258
Notably, Michorczyk et al. reported a detailed comparison of different silica supports, coupled with an in-depth characterisation study.84
It was shown that in each case, the same active Cr species was formed, namely Cr6+, but higher surface area silicas (e.g., SBA-1 and SBA-15) were able to facilitate a higher number of such sites.
A clear correlation was found between the rate of propene formation and the wt% of Cr6+, as determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).
In DDH, while Cr6+ is considered active, under reaction conditions Cr3+ is rapidly formed and considered the principle active species.93,94
The selectivity to propene was similar across the different silica supports (8893%), with the observed differences being attributable to differences in propane conversion rather than catalytic properties.
These Cr2O3/SiO2 catalysts were highly active at 550 C and the most active catalyst (Cr2O3/SBA-1) achieved a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, as shown in Table 11, entry 12.
It should be noted that the experiments were carried out with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 5, which as discussed above, has been shown to enable a higher equilibrium yield of propene.
Therefore, in studies where high conversions are generally targeted and carbon dioxide is in excess of propane, higher propene yields are reported.
Takehira et al. carried out X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) on CrOx/MCM-41, confirming that the reduction of Cr6+ occurs during the reaction.91
Specifically, they identified Cr6+O4 tetrahedra as the active species.
These Cr3+O6 octahedra were formed after reduction, which were considered to be less active.
It was shown that CO2 could re-oxidise the Cr, which suggests that the redox cycle between Cr6+ and Cr3+ is an important process during the reaction.
Yi et al. discriminated between isolated Cr6+ and polymeric Cr6+, finding that after reduction, isolated Cr3+ was more active than polymeric Cr3+. This underlines the importance of Cr dispersion in these catalysts.259
In a more detailed examination of Cr2O3/SBA-1, the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the catalyst and the observed activity were explored.85
Michorczyk et al. found a strong positive correlation between the initial propene yield and the reducibility of the catalyst, specifically the H2 consumption.
In situ UV-vis measurements revealed that Cr6+ is rapidly reduced to Cr3+ or Cr2+ in the presence of C3H8 under reaction conditions.
The reaction proceeds through a Mars-Van Krevelen mechanism, via the Cr2+/3+ redox couple.
Rapid deactivation, typical of Cr2O3 catalysts, was observed, although the majority of the initial activity could be recovered after regeneration in air.
The remainder was ascribed to pore collapse and/or the formation of inactive Cr sites, although the loss of surface Cr sites through agglomeration was not considered.
Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260
The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene.
While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air.
This severely limits the utility of this catalyst.
Zeolites have also been considered as catalyst supports for Cr2O3.
Zhang et al. prepared CrOx/Na-ZSM-5 via incipient wetness.261
Although the initial conversion and selectivity was high (48% and 86%, respectively) (Table 11, entry 5), the catalysts deactivated rapidly and the reaction conditions were such that the STY was only 2.5 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 2.
Zhu et al. investigated a range of MFI supports, including silicalite-1 and H[B]MFI.262
CrOx/H[B]MFI was found to be the most active catalyst, giving a STY of 4.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C with a CO2:C3H8 of 1 (Table 11, entry 15).
Although the as-prepared catalyst exhibited typically poor stability for Cr catalysts, steam treating the catalyst resulted in a marked improvement.
After 60 h on-stream, the as-prepared catalyst retained only 25% of its initial conversion, while the steam treated catalyst retained ca. 74%.
The authors ascribed the effect to stabilised Cr3+ formed in the steam treatment.
Presumably the reduction of Cr6+ during the reaction results in an inactive or less active Cr3+ species.
It should also be noted that the as-prepared catalyst was initially almost twice as active as the steam treated catalyst, which leaves the possibility that at higher conversions, increased coke formation may have occurred which would exaggerate the deactivation compared to the steam treated catalyst.
Ideally such stability comparisons would be made at isoconversion, however this discovery is one of only a few that shows improved stability on-stream.
Recently, Michorczyk et al. prepared a Cr-β-zeolite and investigated the effect of dealumination, which clearly elucidated the effect of acidity on the catalytic performance.263
It was reported that the dealuminated catalyst, Cr-SiBeta, exhibited significantly higher propene yields (up to 27%), compared to the Al-containing catalyst, Cr-AlBeta (2%).
The presence of acid sites in the Cr-AlBeta catalyst resulted in cracking pathways that led to increased production of methane and ethene.
Moreover, the CrAlbeta catalyst performed less well in the presence of CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
This was explained by the strong adsorption of CO2 on the catalyst, similar to the inhibition observed over Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts.
The stability of the dealuminated catalyst was also improved compared with CrAlbeta, but significant loss in activity was observed over the 4 h reaction.
In considering the redox properties of the catalysts in this work, and their previous investigations, the authors also identified a strong correlation between the H2 consumption from H2-TPR studies and the reported propene yield, as shown in Fig. 10.
While the majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial.
Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264
After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream.
In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period.
Using three-stage H2-TPR experiments (where the catalyst is reduced twice under H2 and then re-oxidised in CO2 before the final H2-TPR program), the authors showed that the addition of Ni facilitated the re-oxidation of Cr during the reaction.
This is consistent with previously reported mechanisms of deactivation over Cr-based catalysts, although coking is also often reported to cause deactivation.
Interestingly, the promoted catalyst was marginally more prone to coking.
This strongly suggests that overreduction of active Cr sites is the key deactivation mechanism over these catalysts.
There is a lot of potential to develop promoted Cr catalysts that could enhance the redox activity of the catalyst; precious metals including Pd and Pt are often supported on reducible supports for this purpose.265
Crucially, it was found that above 0.5 wt% Ni, propane reforming was prevalent, which underlines the importance of appropriate loadings of promotors.
O'Brien et al. investigated the effect of a Ru promoter to a 10 wt% CrOx/SiO2 catalyst.
Consistent with Yun et al. it was shown that the propene formation rate was increased.
A 1 wt% Ru loading was optimal and doubled the activity.
Interestingly, this is approximately the same molar ratio reported as the optimum by Yun et al. for Ni-promoted CrOx/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 14).
Another similarity was the propensity of reforming to dominate at high loadings (>1 wt%).
The enhanced stability seen in Ni-promoted Cr catalysts was not observed in this work and the activity could not be fully recovered after regeneration.
Consequently, aggregation of Cr species was suggested as an additional deactivation mechanism in addition to coke formation and overreduction of Cr.
Rather than aid Cr re-oxidation in a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation, the authors concluded that the Ru promotes the RWGS reaction, which removes H2 and increases the equilibrium conversion of propane.
However, the results of three-stage H2-TPR reactions indicated that Cr can be more easily oxidised in the presence of Ru, which suggests that Ru can participate in a similar role as Ni-promoted Cr catalysts.
Overall supported chromium oxide catalysts represent one of the most active classes of ODH-CO2 catalysts, with STY values in the range of 222 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
The correct balance of acidic and basic sites is a key consideration in catalyst design.
Equally, the ratio of carbon dioxide to propane is important to take in account, as it has kinetic and thermodynamic implications.
Thermodynamically, higher CO2:C3H8 ratios limit coke forming side-reactions.
The addition of CO2 in the dehydrogenation reaction has multiple effects: As discussed in Section 2, it facilitates the RWGS reaction which removes H2 from the system and shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium limit to favour propene production.
Additionally, CO2 can dissociate on the surface of a catalyst and provide O species to dehydrogenate propane directly.
Finally, it can react with coke via the reverse-Boudouard reaction to produce CO, which can potentially extend the lifetime of the catalyst.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial.
Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial, Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
Using NH3-TPD analysis, the authors concluded that weak Lewis acid sites were conducive to high activity.
These acidbase properties most likely contribute to the enhanced stability as well; it is known that stronger acid sites promote oligomerisation pathways that produce coke.
The increased performance of Ga2O3/ZSM-48 was attributed to the abundance of weak and medium strength acid sites.
The low activity of Ga2O3/MgO and Ga2O3/SiO2 was ascribed to the absence of medium and strong acid sites.
In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced.
This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
It was found that 10 mol% Fe in CeO2 exhibited the highest propene yield.
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
They showed that reforming pathways were more prevalent at higher CO2:C3H8 ratios, such as 2.5:1 and 5:1.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 and some Ga2O3 catalysts.
The number of studies on supported nanoparticle catalysts for ODH-CO2 are relatively few and those available indicate that this field of research has great potential.
The major challenge is in understanding and inhibiting side-reactions such as reforming, which are known to proceed over this class of catalyst, unlike in Cr- and Ga-based catalysts.
Careful consideration of the nanostructure and composition has shown that the selectivity can be readily tuned to favour different pathways, and further investigation in this area may well be able to harness the high activity of supported nanoparticles as well as favour dehydrogenation pathways.
Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental.
The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America.
The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale.
With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
The majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%).
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.
The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst.
The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [2] "The extent of PtSn interactions depends on the impregnation sequence of Pt and Sn precursors on the support material."
          [3] "The framework of microporous zeolites exerts dispersive forces on the reactant's molecules that depend on the shape, channel and cavity of the framework."
          [4] "In addition, the nature and the density of the active sites influence the framework dispersion forces."
          [5] "Recent reports have shown that the strong electrostatic field between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species can enhance and/or induce polarization of bonds in hydrocarbon adsorbates."
          [6] "This agrees with Hashiguchi et al. [26] , who found enhanced activation of the CH bond on a homogeneous catalyst."
          [7] "Wender et al. [27] showed that 3040% of heat adsorption in n-alkanes on Na-zeolite is due to polarization of the adsorbates."
          [8] "Subbotina et al. [28] also demonstrated that the CH bond of ethane is more strongly polarized on Mg2 + and Ca2 + forms of Y zeolite than on Na+ forms."
          [9] "Based on charge density considerations, Mg2 + cations are expected to exhibit a stronger polarizing effect than Ca2 + cations."
          [10] "Subbotina et al. explain that because of the smaller ionic radius of Mg2 +, it is more strongly shielded by the surrounding oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice than a Ca2 + ion, thereby reducing the polarizing effect of Mg2 + on the hydrocarbon adsorbate."
          [11] "Sievers et al. [29] ,[30] also report that the La3 + form of X zeolite induces strong polarization of adsorbed alkane molecules; partial positive charges were induced on secondary and tertiary carbon atoms of alkane molecules."
          [12] "The authors suggest that the polarization may be viewed as an intermediate condition to hydride abstraction (which is an important elementary step in CH activation)."
          [13] "They add that CH bond polarization was enhanced by physisorbed water molecules that coordinate with La3 + cations."
          [14] "The enhanced polarization of CH bonds by the presence of water molecules on La3 +X zeolite may have a beneficial effect in oxidative dehydrogenation where water is a by-product."
          [15] "Alkane polarization studies on Na+, Mg2 +, Ca2 +, and La3 + exchanged X-zeolites indicate that the polarizing effect increases with increasing charge magnitude and ionic radius."
          [16] "Note that these alkane polarizing cations occupy the same position on the zeolites as the well-known CH activation cations/metals, and thus the CH polarizing effect has a complementary effect on CH activation."
          [17] "This may add to the number of relevant variables and increase the challenge of optimizing the ratio of activation/polarizing cations among exchangeable sites (Si/Al ratio), as well as the sequence for incorporating the cations or metals during catalyst preparation."
          [18] "Further, it is important to note that the choice of cations should be such that they exhibit no catalytic (oligomerization, isomerization, aromatisation or oxidation) effects on the target alkene products at the reaction condition."
          [19] "Furthermore, it may be beneficial to create a CH polarization effect on the zeolite framework."
          [20] "This can be achieved by appropriate chance of framework atoms."
          [21] "Since active sites are usually created on the zeolite frameworks."
          [22] "The active sites (alkoxide intermediate) of the bimolecular pathway are formed in situ ( Scheme 1 )."
          [23] "The alkoxide intermediate is made up of an alkyl carbenium ion ionically held to the zeolite framework oxygen ion."
          [24] "The active sites of the unimolecular pathway are the charge balancing protons of the zeolite framework."
          [25] "A proton and a carbenium ion are an electrophilic or Lewis acid species (a proton can also be considered as a special case of Lewis acidity)."
          [26] "The two pathways essentially involve electrophilic CH activation."
          [27] "The electrophiles (proton and carbenium ion) activate CH at high temperatures (500 C), giving low conversion rates of light alkanes and poor selectivity to corresponding alkenes."
          [28] "The elementary steps of CH activation on OGa+ ( Scheme 2 ) reveal that a redox cycle at the metal center is required for catalytic CH activation via the oxidative addition mechanism."
          [29] "A redox cycle is not apparent in the elementary step presented for CH activation on OZn2+O."
          [30] "Hence, a redox cycle is not a requisite for CH activation via the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism."
          [31] "However, under alkane dehydrogenation reaction conditions, the OZn2+O sites can undergo a reversible Zn2 +/Zn redox process ( Scheme 3 )."
          [32] "This redox process increases the availability of undesired protonic site intermediates."
          [33] "Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 prepared by conventional ion-exchange methods contain a significant percentage of unexchanged proton sites leading to lower alkene selectivity of the catalyst."
          [34] "Iglesia and Biscardi [59] titrate the proton sites with NaOH."
          [35] "The un-titrated and the titrated catalysts are denoted as Zn/H-ZSMS-5 and Zn/Na-ZSMS-5, respectively."
          [36] "Zn/Na-ZSM-5 has four times the propane conversion rate and a higher propene selectivity than Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [37] "The propene formation rate obtained with Zn/Na-ZSM-5 was ten times that of Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [38] "The zinc species at the cation exchange site of the zeolite was identified as OZn+OH."
          [39] "The higher propene selectivity obtained on Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is presumably from the lower density and availability of proton sites on Zn/Na-ZSM-5."
          [40] "The improved propane conversion rate of Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is attributable to the higher efficiency of OZn+OH sites in catalyzing desorption of H-adatoms than OZn2+O sites."
          [41] "Another strategy to enhance alkene selectivity is by controlling the strength of the proton sites."
          [42] "The acidity of the sites depends on the nature of the trivalent cation of the zeolite framework."
          [43] "Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker than those of aluminosilicate [60] ,[61] ,[62] ,[63] ,[64] , and thus higher alkene selectivity is expected for alkane dehydrogenation over Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H[Al]-ZSM-5."
          [44] "However, Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows no activity for propane dehydrogenation."
          [45] "The desired weaker acidity of the proton sites of Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 requires weaker basicity of the oxygen atoms in the zeolite framework."
          [46] "This reduced basicity of the oxygen atoms is not sufficiently polarizing to complement the exchanged Zn2 + in CH bond cleavage."
          [47] "In the next section, we examine use of zeolite support to design a Pt-based alkane dehydrogenation catalyst."
          [48] "Elimination of the proton sites of zeolites is critical for obtaining a high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts."
          [49] "Pt is the most versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions [65] ."
          [50] "Although Pt is expensive, the choice of Pt is often justified by its higher activity, stability and selectivity for these reactions compared to less expensive alternative transition metals."
          [51] "However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge even when using a Pt-based catalyst for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [52] "Waku et al. [66] exploited the unique property of zeolite as a support for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites to create a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [53] "They found that the catalyst deactivation rate of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was lower than for any other Pt-based catalysts in refractory oxide support."
          [54] "The unprecedented performance of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was attributed to its high Pt dispersion (cluster size < 1 mm) on zeolite through ion-exchange."
          [55] "There is a tendency to generate some Brnsted protons on the zeolite during the exchange process, but the choice of Fe3 + as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3 + led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM."
          [56] "The weaker acidity minimizes the tendency of side reactions (cracking of oligomerization, aromatisation, and coke), which translates into higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability."
          [57] "In another report, Xuebing and Iglesia [67] demonstrated the ability of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 to dehydrogenate alkanes longer than C4; n-pentane and n-heptane were selectively converted to n-pentene and n-heptene, respectively."
          [58] "Alkene selectivity was also improved when the residual proton generated during Pt exchange or Na-[Fe]-ZSM was titrated with Cs [67] ."
          [59] "Although Pt with conventional refractory oxides (Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, etc.) used for dehydrogenation of alkanes has similar conversion rates to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, deactivation rates are also rapid due to coke formation."
          [60] "The presence of acid (Bronsted and Lewis) sites on the supports promotes readsorption, oligomerization and aromatisation of alkenes."
          [61] "Promotion of Pt with metals, such as Sn, Ga, Zn, Re, etc., improves catalyst stability, but also leads to faster deactivation rates than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [62] "However, recent reports by Bell et al. [68] ,[69] ,[70] show that the use of calcined hydrotalcite (Al/Mg  0.1) supported on bimetallic PtGa or PtSn gave very high alkene selectivity and stability, comparable to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [63] "At this stage, we can conclude that differences in the performance of Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 obtained by Kanansky et al. [53] are attributable to their respective CH activation mechanisms."
          [64] "In addition, the role of exchanged Zn and Ga as promoters of RD becomes evident from the mechanisms ( Scheme 2 )."
          [65] "The RD mechanism on Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 is by reductive elimination of a hydrogen molecule from O[Ga(H)2]+ intermediate."
          [66] "Decomposition of ZnR and a protonic site, or neutralization of the proton sites by ZnH, leads to desorption of the hydrogen molecule on the Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5."
          [67] "By extrapolation, the mechanisms of CH activation on exchanged Zn and Ga H-ZSM-5 can described the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on Cr-based and Pt-based catalysts respectively."
          [68] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
          [69] "However, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism could also explain the proposed CH activation on Cr-based catalysts."
          [70] "Now, the nature and the role of surface oxygen species become more evident."
          [71] "The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity."
          [72] "The highlights in this section are presented in Table 2 ."
          [73] "The table reveals the insights achieved on the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity and catalyst stability for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [74] "Nonetheless, the level of catalyst activity is still far from acceptable, even at high temperature."
          [75] "A recent report by Rothenberg et al. [71] provides a lead in this respect."
          [76] "Their report indicates that a porous copperaluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance (activity/selectivity/stability) for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3."
          [77] "Of particular interest, is the suggestion that achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C may be possible."
          [78] "Few details are known about the structure of the porous copperaluminum framework material."
          [79] "However, copper is implicated as providing the active sites for the catalysis."
          [80] "Also, that the material activated in oxygen gave higher propane conversion rates than those activated in inert gas atmosphere underscores the role of the surface oxide (oxygen species) in the catalysis."
          [81] "Thus, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may be invoked here, and the redox property of the metal center is likely to play a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C."
          [82] "This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."

[3] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [4] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [5] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [6] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [7] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [8] "The pore size is also considered to have a slight effect on the catalytic activity, i.e., lower activation barriers for reactions in zeolites with larger pore size."
          [9] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [10] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [11] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [12] "Although the general trend of catalytic activity is not as easy to be addressed for these as for metal systems, the case studies still shed light on dehydrogenation mechanisms in these systems, and more insights emerge which are normally difficult to be explored at molecular level even by the most advanced experimental equipment."
          [13] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [14] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [15] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [16] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [17] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [18] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [19] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [20] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [21] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
          [22] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."

[1] "PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month."
          [2] "The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one."
          [3] "Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles."
          [4] "Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time."
          [5] "The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited."
          [6] "Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts."
          [7] "Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH."
          [8] "The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites."
          [9] "Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent."
          [10] "The resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH."



Al2O3 is one of the most commonly used supports in heterogeneous catalysis due to its structural advantages and stability.
          The coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites present on the (100) facets of commercial γ-Al2O3 can serve as anchor sites to anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites.
          The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 can allow the tetrahedral Ga3+ cations to highly disperse in the spinel-type γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 solid solution, leading to an enhanced activity and stability in PDH reaction.
          The γ-Al2O3 nanosheet containing 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites has been proved that it could nicely disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters because of the strong interactions between metals and support.
          This PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent performance at an ultrahigh space velocity in a long-term PDH reaction.
          In addition to being an appropriate support, the hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 showed a high activity of coordinately unsaturated Al3+ as the surface active sites in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene.
          Furthermore, the diversity and complexity on the structure of Al2O3, for example the surface acidity at the low-coordinated Al sites, determined the different properties in the adsorption and the activation of propane as well as coke deposition in the PDH reaction.
          Herein, a one-step hydrothermal method is employed to synthesize sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficiently catalyzing the PDH reaction.
          The structural and catalytic stabilities as well as the CoAl2O3 interaction for these catalysts are benchmarked to an impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst.
          We further illustrate the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in the Co-catalyzed PDH reaction.

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
          [2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
          [3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
          [4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
          [5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
          [6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
          [7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."
          [8] "The introduction of Pt species via impregnation does not change the dispersion of Zn species on Si-Beta support."
          [9] "The close contact between Pt-Zn species and the electronic interaction thereof make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts."

[1] "NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts."
          [2] "NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity."
          [3] "Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds."
          [4] "High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination temperatures of 400500 C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability."

[1] "The stability of the Pt particles at the surface of supports can be greatly enhanced by the manipulation of metal-support interaction [9] ,[10] ."
          [2] "The Al2O3 with coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites can stabilize the atomically dispersed Pt specie via the formation of Al3+ penta-O-Pt bond, which results in anchoring Pt particles at the surface of Al2O3 support."
          [3] "The Pt particles can be tightly stabilized on the heteroatoms in the lattice of oxide substrate [11] ."
          [4] "Small Pt particles stabilized in the lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) produces a highly selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [12] ."
          [5] "Pt particles confined at the Sn single-site in zeolite framework show high catalytic performance in the propane dehydrogenation, and the enhanced performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the strong interaction between the Pt particles and the framework of Sn-zeolite [13] ."
          [6] "The PtSn bimetallic particles are confined in the mesopores, which allow them to become a stable catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at high temperature."
          [7] "The high efficiency of these PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is mainly attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles in the mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite."

Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors.
          β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity.
          The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity.
          Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst.
          Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%.
          The role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41  CrOx/MgO  CrOx/Si-2.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the nature of the support material, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, can affect the dispersion and stability of the active phase, thereby impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The interaction between the support and the active phase can also alter the electronic properties of the catalyst, which can further enhance its performance. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can reduce surface acidity and increase the number of active sites, while using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.

<!-- Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results -->

[1] "The physicochemical properties of catalysts have a significant impact on their catalytic behaviors. Chemical qualities, including acid strength and hydrothermal and pH stability, affect the selectivity toward the targeted alkene in dehydrogenation reactions, while the morphological and porous qualities can influence the diffusion efficiency."
          [2] "In this section, strategies focused on support modification for dehydrogenation catalysts are summarized (Table 3)."
          [3] "PDH is an acid-sensitive reaction, which signifies that proper acidity of the support is preferable for CH activation and propylene desorption, while unduly strong acidity, on the other hand, can generate a negative impact on the PDH process, possibly leading to CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation."
          [4] "As for zeolites, the Lewis acid sites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while the Brnsted acid sites are inductive factors in catalyzing cleavage reactions."
          [5] "For heterogeneous catalysts, one kinetic factor, the diffusion efficiency of the reactants and products, which is determined by the morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties of the supports, should be taken into consideration."
          [6] "Several strategies are proposed, focusing on shortening the diffusion path or diffusion resistance, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces, e.g., needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures."

[1] "Different characterization techniques including H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, C3H6-TPD, XPS, BET, CO-chemisorption, CO-DRIFT, and TGA were used to unravel the properties of catalysts."
          [2] "Enhanced propylene selectivity (98.5% Vs 96.4% @ 600 C and 24 h TOS) and catalyst stability were achieved due to the decrease of acid centers of Al2O3 along with an increase of the degree of alloy formation upon addition of Ca."
          [3] "The experimental data of propane conversion vs. time were successfully fitted with the Deactivation Model with Residual Activity (DMRA), allowing for the calculation of the intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters for both catalysts."
          [4] "For the Ca-promoted catalyst, a deactivation function of 0.05 h1 along with a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C were obtained."
          [5] "Whereas, for the non-promoted sample, these values were 0.22 h1 and 0.63, respectively."
          [6] "The activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Pt0.5-Ge1.5/Al2O3-CaO catalyst was slightly higher than that of the unmodified one (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to the enhanced reduction of the GeOx species on this sample, which enhanced the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, decreasing the initial activity of the catalyst."
          [7] "However, the higher resistance against the deactivation by coke of the promoted catalyst was invoked to explain the better performance of this catalyst in terms both of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions."

The Lewis acid site arising from the unsaturated AlIII site in the Al2O3 structure is the active site for the catalytic cycle.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst shows the highest yield, which delivers an initial conversion of 48% and selectivity of 83%.
          A majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The formation of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.

[1] "The synthesis procedure employed a diammonium-type bromide surfactant [C18H37N(CH3)2C6H12N(CH3)2C4H9Br2] and a sodium-free silica source."
          [2] "The presence of silanol nests in the resultant zeolite was confirmed by IR and NMR spectroscopies."
          [3] "When the zeolite was supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y using nitrate precursors, a remarkably long catalytic lifetime of 20 days was obtained with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under the reaction condition using neat propane gas at 853 K."
          [4] "The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles exhibited fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption behavior at room temperature, whereas the monometallic Pt nanoparticles showed only partially reversible chemisorption (4050% reversibility) due to the formation of a strong Pt-H bond."
          [5] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts were even superior to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of catalytic durability."
          [6] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 d as mentioned above, but PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl was deactivated within 1 d, similar to that of Pt(0.5)/MZ-sc."
          [7] "The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite."
          [8] "The HAADF-STEM images show that the metal nanoparticles were homogeneously distributed throughout the support material in all cases."
          [9] "The size of the metal particles was approximately 2 nm for all four samples."
          [10] "The EDS analysis results confirmed that these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Y in the same particle."
          [11] "The average atomic ratio of Pt to Y was determined to be approximately 3 for both PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br samples, which agrees well with the Pt/Y ratio of Pt3Y intermetallic alloys supported on MZ-dg in a previous study."
          [12] "The conversion-vs-time plot in Fig. 6 a shows that the three PtY(0.5) catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period (12 h) to reach the full conversion."
          [13] "The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value (42% at 853 K) during the early reaction period (e.g., < 7 d in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br)."
          [14] "The TGA profile for the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst showed that 37 wt% of coke species were deposited on the catalyst sample."
          [15] "The measured spacing value of 0.403 nm corresponding to the Pt3Y L12 superlattice closely matched the known value of the Pt3Y bulk structure (i.e., 0.400 nm taken from PDF 00017-0058)."
          [16] "The results show that there is an inverse relationship between the propane conversion and the metal loading amount when the catalysts were fully activated."
          [17] "The conversion-vs-loading relationship appears to originate from increasing metal dispersion (or decreasing particle size) at low loadings."
          [18] "The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading appears to be due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst."

"CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."

The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. The experimental parameters had a beneficial effect on the concentration of Zrcus4+ ions, and the concentration of surface lattice oxygen, which in tandem play an active role in propane activation.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.
The preparation of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt.
The enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
The stability was improved in the presence of CO2 (compared to DDH); ca. 74% of the original activity was retained after 10 h on-stream, which is relatively good compared to Ga- and Cr-based catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
The role of CO2 in ODH-CO2 is to assist the above equilibrium by removing H2via the RWGS reaction.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
The initial STY of this catalyst was 10.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 13, entry 4), which is amongst the most active reported to date, but requires significant improvements to its on-stream stability.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 (Table 13) and some Ga2O3 catalysts (Table 12).
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
The authors concluded that the relative proportions of V3+, V4+ and V5+ species present on the catalyst surface were affected by V loading and at the optimal loading of 12 wt%, a high concentration of isolated V3+ species was detected.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
The combined and synergistic effect of the surface acidity modifications, their influence on the active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitated desorption of propene and inhibited the deep dehydrogenation that leads to coke precursors.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The highest STY achieved was 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 7).
The moderate vanadium doping level was conducive to highly dispersed vanadium species in the form of isolated and low-polymerized VOx species.
Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability.
The STY was 6.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 5), due to the low GHSV so while the catalyst achieved high selectivity at reasonable propane conversion, it was not as intrinsically active as other supported VOx catalysts.
The most active catalyst, V/Si-beta (having 3 wt% V loading) displayed an initial propene yield of 33.4% and retained activity over multiple dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The STY was 4.4 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 6), which is 56 times less active than the most active VOx catalysts reported to date, suggesting that Si-beta does not facilitate a high concentration of active V sites.
It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).
The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species.
For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C.
This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported.
The STY of ZrO2 without VOx is actually much higher than in the current work.
The most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method.
The role of the other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear so further work to elucidate this could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.
The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels.
The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation.
The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.
The preparation of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.
The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond.
The metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.
The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
It was found that over 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2, the propene yield increased from 6.5% to 9.1% when CO2 was co-fed instead of Ar.
In contrast, the alumina supported catalyst was inhibited by the addition of CO2, as shown by the drop in propene yield from 12.7% to 3.3%.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/AC material was unaffected by CO2 addition.
The Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
Relative to many other metal oxides, Cr2O3 is considered to be one of the most promising catalysts for ODH-CO2.
Takehira et al. compared the catalytic performance of several d block and p block oxides (namely Cr, Ga, Ni, V, Fe, Mn and Co) supported on MCM-41, at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 molar ratio of 5.6.
After 30 min on-stream, the propene yield of the Cr-based catalyst was 15% whereas for the Ga-based counterpart it was 5%.
The remaining catalysts all exhibited lower propene yields (in the 14% range).
However, as the catalysts were not characterised, it is unclear if the dispersion of these catalysts was comparable, and therefore if the results reflect the true intrinsic activity of each metal.
It was also noted that the order of reactivity resembled the trends observed by Nakagawa et al. for diamond-supported metal catalysts in the DDH reaction.
This suggests that there are commonalities in catalyst design between DDH and ODH-CO2 which most likely relate to the interaction of the alkane with the catalyst.
Contrary to this, Zhang et al. compared ZrO2, SBA-15 and γ-Al2O3 as supports for Cr2O3 in the DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions.
They found that the highest propene yield was observed with different catalyst systems under different dehydrogenation reactions, i.e., the activity trends in DDH did not translate to ODH-CO2 catalysts.
Specifically, Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was the most active for the DDH reaction, while the highest yield of propene for the ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions was observed over Cr2O3/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 7).
Across all the catalysts however, the highest propene yields were generally observed in the DDH reaction, ascribed to the production of carbon oxides in the ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 reactions.
However, it was reported that Cr2O3/ZrO2 was more stable on-stream in ODH-CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
Wu et al. also observed increased stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2 in the presence of CO2 (Table 11, entry 4).
They reported that the CO formation rate was higher than the CO2 consumption rate and the excess CO was suggested to originate from the Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C  2CO); this could explain the increased stability of this catalyst.
It is possible that some dry reforming of propane also took place, which would produce H2 and CO.
Zhao et al. recently reported the facile preparation of Cr supported in mesoporous ZrO2 using an evaporation-induced self-assembly method (Table 11, entry 6).
The authors suggested that propene could react with carbon dioxide to form carbon monoxide, methane and water.
Other studies have reported a stronger inhibition effect for Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2.
For instance, Ferreira et al. studied the adsorption properties of CO2 and concluded that it binds strongly to active Cr2O3 sites, lowering the activity and stability of the catalyst,
whereas Xie et al. suggested that coke formation could originate from CO2 hydrogenation over Cr2+ species.
These conflicting reports may relate to the structural polymorph of ZrO2 present in the catalyst support; this factor is often overlooked, but recent studies from Kondratenko et al. revealed that nanocrystalline ZrO2 is an active DDH catalyst in its own right151,152 under similar reaction conditions.
The ZrO2 crystal phase and crystallite size were strongly correlated to the catalyst activity: smaller crystallites were more active but amorphous ZrO2 had very low intrinsic activity.
Moreover, monoclinic ZrO2 was more active than tetragonal ZrO2.
Cr2O3-catalysed ODH-CO2 has been examined over different polymorphs of SiO2,254256 including various structured porous oxides, including SBA-1,84 SBA-15,250,257 MCM-41,91 amorphous silica84 and mesoporous silica spheres.258
Notably, Michorczyk et al. reported a detailed comparison of different silica supports, coupled with an in-depth characterisation study.84
It was shown that in each case, the same active Cr species was formed, namely Cr6+, but higher surface area silicas (e.g., SBA-1 and SBA-15) were able to facilitate a higher number of such sites.
A clear correlation was found between the rate of propene formation and the wt% of Cr6+, as determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).
In DDH, while Cr6+ is considered active, under reaction conditions Cr3+ is rapidly formed and considered the principle active species.93,94
The selectivity to propene was similar across the different silica supports (8893%), with the observed differences being attributable to differences in propane conversion rather than catalytic properties.
These Cr2O3/SiO2 catalysts were highly active at 550 C and the most active catalyst (Cr2O3/SBA-1) achieved a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, as shown in Table 11, entry 12.
It should be noted that the experiments were carried out with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 5, which as discussed above, has been shown to enable a higher equilibrium yield of propene.
Therefore, in studies where high conversions are generally targeted and carbon dioxide is in excess of propane, higher propene yields are reported.
Takehira et al. carried out X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) on CrOx/MCM-41, confirming that the reduction of Cr6+ occurs during the reaction.91
Specifically, they identified Cr6+O4 tetrahedra as the active species.
These Cr3+O6 octahedra were formed after reduction, which were considered to be less active.
It was shown that CO2 could re-oxidise the Cr, which suggests that the redox cycle between Cr6+ and Cr3+ is an important process during the reaction.
Yi et al. discriminated between isolated Cr6+ and polymeric Cr6+, finding that after reduction, isolated Cr3+ was more active than polymeric Cr3+. This underlines the importance of Cr dispersion in these catalysts.259
In a more detailed examination of Cr2O3/SBA-1, the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the catalyst and the observed activity were explored.85
Michorczyk et al. found a strong positive correlation between the initial propene yield and the reducibility of the catalyst, specifically the H2 consumption.
In situ UV-vis measurements revealed that Cr6+ is rapidly reduced to Cr3+ or Cr2+ in the presence of C3H8 under reaction conditions.
The reaction proceeds through a Mars-Van Krevelen mechanism, via the Cr2+/3+ redox couple.
Rapid deactivation, typical of Cr2O3 catalysts, was observed, although the majority of the initial activity could be recovered after regeneration in air.
The remainder was ascribed to pore collapse and/or the formation of inactive Cr sites, although the loss of surface Cr sites through agglomeration was not considered.
Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260
The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene.
While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air.
This severely limits the utility of this catalyst.
Zeolites have also been considered as catalyst supports for Cr2O3.
Zhang et al. prepared CrOx/Na-ZSM-5 via incipient wetness.261
Although the initial conversion and selectivity was high (48% and 86%, respectively) (Table 11, entry 5), the catalysts deactivated rapidly and the reaction conditions were such that the STY was only 2.5 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 2.
Zhu et al. investigated a range of MFI supports, including silicalite-1 and H[B]MFI.262
CrOx/H[B]MFI was found to be the most active catalyst, giving a STY of 4.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C with a CO2:C3H8 of 1 (Table 11, entry 15).
Although the as-prepared catalyst exhibited typically poor stability for Cr catalysts, steam treating the catalyst resulted in a marked improvement.
After 60 h on-stream, the as-prepared catalyst retained only 25% of its initial conversion, while the steam treated catalyst retained ca. 74%.
The authors ascribed the effect to stabilised Cr3+ formed in the steam treatment.
Presumably the reduction of Cr6+ during the reaction results in an inactive or less active Cr3+ species.
It should also be noted that the as-prepared catalyst was initially almost twice as active as the steam treated catalyst, which leaves the possibility that at higher conversions, increased coke formation may have occurred which would exaggerate the deactivation compared to the steam treated catalyst.
Ideally such stability comparisons would be made at isoconversion, however this discovery is one of only a few that shows improved stability on-stream.
Recently, Michorczyk et al. prepared a Cr-β-zeolite and investigated the effect of dealumination, which clearly elucidated the effect of acidity on the catalytic performance.263
It was reported that the dealuminated catalyst, Cr-SiBeta, exhibited significantly higher propene yields (up to 27%), compared to the Al-containing catalyst, Cr-AlBeta (2%).
The presence of acid sites in the Cr-AlBeta catalyst resulted in cracking pathways that led to increased production of methane and ethene.
Moreover, the CrAlbeta catalyst performed less well in the presence of CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
This was explained by the strong adsorption of CO2 on the catalyst, similar to the inhibition observed over Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts.
The stability of the dealuminated catalyst was also improved compared with CrAlbeta, but significant loss in activity was observed over the 4 h reaction.
In considering the redox properties of the catalysts in this work, and their previous investigations, the authors also identified a strong correlation between the H2 consumption from H2-TPR studies and the reported propene yield, as shown in Fig. 10.
While the majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial.
Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264
After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream.
In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period.
Using three-stage H2-TPR experiments (where the catalyst is reduced twice under H2 and then re-oxidised in CO2 before the final H2-TPR program), the authors showed that the addition of Ni facilitated the re-oxidation of Cr during the reaction.
This is consistent with previously reported mechanisms of deactivation over Cr-based catalysts, although coking is also often reported to cause deactivation.
Interestingly, the promoted catalyst was marginally more prone to coking.
This strongly suggests that overreduction of active Cr sites is the key deactivation mechanism over these catalysts.
There is a lot of potential to develop promoted Cr catalysts that could enhance the redox activity of the catalyst; precious metals including Pd and Pt are often supported on reducible supports for this purpose.265
Crucially, it was found that above 0.5 wt% Ni, propane reforming was prevalent, which underlines the importance of appropriate loadings of promotors.
O'Brien et al. investigated the effect of a Ru promoter to a 10 wt% CrOx/SiO2 catalyst.
Consistent with Yun et al. it was shown that the propene formation rate was increased.
A 1 wt% Ru loading was optimal and doubled the activity.
Interestingly, this is approximately the same molar ratio reported as the optimum by Yun et al. for Ni-promoted CrOx/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 14).
Another similarity was the propensity of reforming to dominate at high loadings (>1 wt%).
The enhanced stability seen in Ni-promoted Cr catalysts was not observed in this work and the activity could not be fully recovered after regeneration.
Consequently, aggregation of Cr species was suggested as an additional deactivation mechanism in addition to coke formation and overreduction of Cr.
Rather than aid Cr re-oxidation in a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation, the authors concluded that the Ru promotes the RWGS reaction, which removes H2 and increases the equilibrium conversion of propane.
However, the results of three-stage H2-TPR reactions indicated that Cr can be more easily oxidised in the presence of Ru, which suggests that Ru can participate in a similar role as Ni-promoted Cr catalysts.
Overall supported chromium oxide catalysts represent one of the most active classes of ODH-CO2 catalysts, with STY values in the range of 222 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
The correct balance of acidic and basic sites is a key consideration in catalyst design.
Equally, the ratio of carbon dioxide to propane is important to take in account, as it has kinetic and thermodynamic implications.
Thermodynamically, higher CO2:C3H8 ratios limit coke forming side-reactions.
The addition of CO2 in the dehydrogenation reaction has multiple effects: As discussed in Section 2, it facilitates the RWGS reaction which removes H2 from the system and shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium limit to favour propene production.
Additionally, CO2 can dissociate on the surface of a catalyst and provide O species to dehydrogenate propane directly.
Finally, it can react with coke via the reverse-Boudouard reaction to produce CO, which can potentially extend the lifetime of the catalyst.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial.
Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial, Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
Using NH3-TPD analysis, the authors concluded that weak Lewis acid sites were conducive to high activity.
These acidbase properties most likely contribute to the enhanced stability as well; it is known that stronger acid sites promote oligomerisation pathways that produce coke.
The increased performance of Ga2O3/ZSM-48 was attributed to the abundance of weak and medium strength acid sites.
The low activity of Ga2O3/MgO and Ga2O3/SiO2 was ascribed to the absence of medium and strong acid sites.
In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced.
This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
It was found that 10 mol% Fe in CeO2 exhibited the highest propene yield.
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
They showed that reforming pathways were more prevalent at higher CO2:C3H8 ratios, such as 2.5:1 and 5:1.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 and some Ga2O3 catalysts.
The number of studies on supported nanoparticle catalysts for ODH-CO2 are relatively few and those available indicate that this field of research has great potential.
The major challenge is in understanding and inhibiting side-reactions such as reforming, which are known to proceed over this class of catalyst, unlike in Cr- and Ga-based catalysts.
Careful consideration of the nanostructure and composition has shown that the selectivity can be readily tuned to favour different pathways, and further investigation in this area may well be able to harness the high activity of supported nanoparticles as well as favour dehydrogenation pathways.
Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental.
The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America.
The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale.
With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
The majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%).
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.
The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst.
The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [2] "The extent of PtSn interactions depends on the impregnation sequence of Pt and Sn precursors on the support material."
          [3] "The framework of microporous zeolites exerts dispersive forces on the reactant's molecules that depend on the shape, channel and cavity of the framework."
          [4] "In addition, the nature and the density of the active sites influence the framework dispersion forces."
          [5] "Recent reports have shown that the strong electrostatic field between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species can enhance and/or induce polarization of bonds in hydrocarbon adsorbates."
          [6] "This agrees with Hashiguchi et al. [26] , who found enhanced activation of the CH bond on a homogeneous catalyst."
          [7] "Wender et al. [27] showed that 3040% of heat adsorption in n-alkanes on Na-zeolite is due to polarization of the adsorbates."
          [8] "Subbotina et al. [28] also demonstrated that the CH bond of ethane is more strongly polarized on Mg2 + and Ca2 + forms of Y zeolite than on Na+ forms."
          [9] "Based on charge density considerations, Mg2 + cations are expected to exhibit a stronger polarizing effect than Ca2 + cations."
          [10] "Subbotina et al. explain that because of the smaller ionic radius of Mg2 +, it is more strongly shielded by the surrounding oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice than a Ca2 + ion, thereby reducing the polarizing effect of Mg2 + on the hydrocarbon adsorbate."
          [11] "Sievers et al. [29] ,[30] also report that the La3 + form of X zeolite induces strong polarization of adsorbed alkane molecules; partial positive charges were induced on secondary and tertiary carbon atoms of alkane molecules."
          [12] "The authors suggest that the polarization may be viewed as an intermediate condition to hydride abstraction (which is an important elementary step in CH activation)."
          [13] "They add that CH bond polarization was enhanced by physisorbed water molecules that coordinate with La3 + cations."
          [14] "The enhanced polarization of CH bonds by the presence of water molecules on La3 +X zeolite may have a beneficial effect in oxidative dehydrogenation where water is a by-product."
          [15] "Alkane polarization studies on Na+, Mg2 +, Ca2 +, and La3 + exchanged X-zeolites indicate that the polarizing effect increases with increasing charge magnitude and ionic radius."
          [16] "Note that these alkane polarizing cations occupy the same position on the zeolites as the well-known CH activation cations/metals, and thus the CH polarizing effect has a complementary effect on CH activation."
          [17] "This may add to the number of relevant variables and increase the challenge of optimizing the ratio of activation/polarizing cations among exchangeable sites (Si/Al ratio), as well as the sequence for incorporating the cations or metals during catalyst preparation."
          [18] "Further, it is important to note that the choice of cations should be such that they exhibit no catalytic (oligomerization, isomerization, aromatisation or oxidation) effects on the target alkene products at the reaction condition."
          [19] "Furthermore, it may be beneficial to create a CH polarization effect on the zeolite framework."
          [20] "This can be achieved by appropriate chance of framework atoms."
          [21] "Since active sites are usually created on the zeolite frameworks."
          [22] "The active sites (alkoxide intermediate) of the bimolecular pathway are formed in situ ( Scheme 1 )."
          [23] "The alkoxide intermediate is made up of an alkyl carbenium ion ionically held to the zeolite framework oxygen ion."
          [24] "The active sites of the unimolecular pathway are the charge balancing protons of the zeolite framework."
          [25] "A proton and a carbenium ion are an electrophilic or Lewis acid species (a proton can also be considered as a special case of Lewis acidity)."
          [26] "The two pathways essentially involve electrophilic CH activation."
          [27] "The electrophiles (proton and carbenium ion) activate CH at high temperatures (500 C), giving low conversion rates of light alkanes and poor selectivity to corresponding alkenes."
          [28] "The elementary steps of CH activation on OGa+ ( Scheme 2 ) reveal that a redox cycle at the metal center is required for catalytic CH activation via the oxidative addition mechanism."
          [29] "A redox cycle is not apparent in the elementary step presented for CH activation on OZn2+O."
          [30] "Hence, a redox cycle is not a requisite for CH activation via the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism."
          [31] "However, under alkane dehydrogenation reaction conditions, the OZn2+O sites can undergo a reversible Zn2 +/Zn redox process ( Scheme 3 )."
          [32] "This redox process increases the availability of undesired protonic site intermediates."
          [33] "Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 prepared by conventional ion-exchange methods contain a significant percentage of unexchanged proton sites leading to lower alkene selectivity of the catalyst."
          [34] "Iglesia and Biscardi [59] titrate the proton sites with NaOH."
          [35] "The un-titrated and the titrated catalysts are denoted as Zn/H-ZSMS-5 and Zn/Na-ZSMS-5, respectively."
          [36] "Zn/Na-ZSM-5 has four times the propane conversion rate and a higher propene selectivity than Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [37] "The propene formation rate obtained with Zn/Na-ZSM-5 was ten times that of Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [38] "The zinc species at the cation exchange site of the zeolite was identified as OZn+OH."
          [39] "The higher propene selectivity obtained on Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is presumably from the lower density and availability of proton sites on Zn/Na-ZSM-5."
          [40] "The improved propane conversion rate of Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is attributable to the higher efficiency of OZn+OH sites in catalyzing desorption of H-adatoms than OZn2+O sites."
          [41] "Another strategy to enhance alkene selectivity is by controlling the strength of the proton sites."
          [42] "The acidity of the sites depends on the nature of the trivalent cation of the zeolite framework."
          [43] "Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker than those of aluminosilicate [60] ,[61] ,[62] ,[63] ,[64] , and thus higher alkene selectivity is expected for alkane dehydrogenation over Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H[Al]-ZSM-5."
          [44] "However, Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows no activity for propane dehydrogenation."
          [45] "The desired weaker acidity of the proton sites of Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 requires weaker basicity of the oxygen atoms in the zeolite framework."
          [46] "This reduced basicity of the oxygen atoms is not sufficiently polarizing to complement the exchanged Zn2 + in CH bond cleavage."
          [47] "In the next section, we examine use of zeolite support to design a Pt-based alkane dehydrogenation catalyst."
          [48] "Elimination of the proton sites of zeolites is critical for obtaining a high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts."
          [49] "Pt is the most versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions [65] ."
          [50] "Although Pt is expensive, the choice of Pt is often justified by its higher activity, stability and selectivity for these reactions compared to less expensive alternative transition metals."
          [51] "However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge even when using a Pt-based catalyst for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [52] "Waku et al. [66] exploited the unique property of zeolite as a support for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites to create a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [53] "They found that the catalyst deactivation rate of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was lower than for any other Pt-based catalysts in refractory oxide support."
          [54] "The unprecedented performance of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was attributed to its high Pt dispersion (cluster size < 1 mm) on zeolite through ion-exchange."
          [55] "There is a tendency to generate some Brnsted protons on the zeolite during the exchange process, but the choice of Fe3 + as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3 + led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM."
          [56] "The weaker acidity minimizes the tendency of side reactions (cracking of oligomerization, aromatisation, and coke), which translates into higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability."
          [57] "In another report, Xuebing and Iglesia [67] demonstrated the ability of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 to dehydrogenate alkanes longer than C4; n-pentane and n-heptane were selectively converted to n-pentene and n-heptene, respectively."
          [58] "Alkene selectivity was also improved when the residual proton generated during Pt exchange or Na-[Fe]-ZSM was titrated with Cs [67] ."
          [59] "Although Pt with conventional refractory oxides (Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, etc.) used for dehydrogenation of alkanes has similar conversion rates to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, deactivation rates are also rapid due to coke formation."
          [60] "The presence of acid (Bronsted and Lewis) sites on the supports promotes readsorption, oligomerization and aromatisation of alkenes."
          [61] "Promotion of Pt with metals, such as Sn, Ga, Zn, Re, etc., improves catalyst stability, but also leads to faster deactivation rates than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [62] "However, recent reports by Bell et al. [68] ,[69] ,[70] show that the use of calcined hydrotalcite (Al/Mg  0.1) supported on bimetallic PtGa or PtSn gave very high alkene selectivity and stability, comparable to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [63] "At this stage, we can conclude that differences in the performance of Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 obtained by Kanansky et al. [53] are attributable to their respective CH activation mechanisms."
          [64] "In addition, the role of exchanged Zn and Ga as promoters of RD becomes evident from the mechanisms ( Scheme 2 )."
          [65] "The RD mechanism on Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 is by reductive elimination of a hydrogen molecule from O[Ga(H)2]+ intermediate."
          [66] "Decomposition of ZnR and a protonic site, or neutralization of the proton sites by ZnH, leads to desorption of the hydrogen molecule on the Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5."
          [67] "By extrapolation, the mechanisms of CH activation on exchanged Zn and Ga H-ZSM-5 can described the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on Cr-based and Pt-based catalysts respectively."
          [68] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
          [69] "However, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism could also explain the proposed CH activation on Cr-based catalysts."
          [70] "Now, the nature and the role of surface oxygen species become more evident."
          [71] "The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity."
          [72] "The highlights in this section are presented in Table 2 ."
          [73] "The table reveals the insights achieved on the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity and catalyst stability for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [74] "Nonetheless, the level of catalyst activity is still far from acceptable, even at high temperature."
          [75] "A recent report by Rothenberg et al. [71] provides a lead in this respect."
          [76] "Their report indicates that a porous copperaluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance (activity/selectivity/stability) for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3."
          [77] "Of particular interest, is the suggestion that achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C may be possible."
          [78] "Few details are known about the structure of the porous copperaluminum framework material."
          [79] "However, copper is implicated as providing the active sites for the catalysis."
          [80] "Also, that the material activated in oxygen gave higher propane conversion rates than those activated in inert gas atmosphere underscores the role of the surface oxide (oxygen species) in the catalysis."
          [81] "Thus, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may be invoked here, and the redox property of the metal center is likely to play a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C."
          [82] "This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."

[3] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [4] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [5] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [6] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [7] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [8] "The pore size is also considered to have a slight effect on the catalytic activity, i.e., lower activation barriers for reactions in zeolites with larger pore size."
          [9] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [10] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [11] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [12] "Although the general trend of catalytic activity is not as easy to be addressed for these as for metal systems, the case studies still shed light on dehydrogenation mechanisms in these systems, and more insights emerge which are normally difficult to be explored at molecular level even by the most advanced experimental equipment."
          [13] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [14] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [15] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [16] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [17] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [18] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [19] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [20] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [21] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
          [22] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."

[1] "PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month."
          [2] "The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one."
          [3] "Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles."
          [4] "Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time."
          [5] "The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited."
          [6] "Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts."
          [7] "Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH."
          [8] "The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites."
          [9] "Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent."
          [10] "The resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH."



Al2O3 is one of the most commonly used supports in heterogeneous catalysis due to its structural advantages and stability.
          The coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites present on the (100) facets of commercial γ-Al2O3 can serve as anchor sites to anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites.
          The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 can allow the tetrahedral Ga3+ cations to highly disperse in the spinel-type γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 solid solution, leading to an enhanced activity and stability in PDH reaction.
          The γ-Al2O3 nanosheet containing 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites has been proved that it could nicely disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters because of the strong interactions between metals and support.
          This PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent performance at an ultrahigh space velocity in a long-term PDH reaction.
          In addition to being an appropriate support, the hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 showed a high activity of coordinately unsaturated Al3+ as the surface active sites in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene.
          Furthermore, the diversity and complexity on the structure of Al2O3, for example the surface acidity at the low-coordinated Al sites, determined the different properties in the adsorption and the activation of propane as well as coke deposition in the PDH reaction.
          Herein, a one-step hydrothermal method is employed to synthesize sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficiently catalyzing the PDH reaction.
          The structural and catalytic stabilities as well as the CoAl2O3 interaction for these catalysts are benchmarked to an impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst.
          We further illustrate the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in the Co-catalyzed PDH reaction.

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
          [2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
          [3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
          [4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
          [5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
          [6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
          [7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."
          [8] "The introduction of Pt species via impregnation does not change the dispersion of Zn species on Si-Beta support."
          [9] "The close contact between Pt-Zn species and the electronic interaction thereof make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts."

[1] "NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts."
          [2] "NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity."
          [3] "Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds."
          [4] "High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination temperatures of 400500 C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability."

[1] "The stability of the Pt particles at the surface of supports can be greatly enhanced by the manipulation of metal-support interaction [9] ,[10] ."
          [2] "The Al2O3 with coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites can stabilize the atomically dispersed Pt specie via the formation of Al3+ penta-O-Pt bond, which results in anchoring Pt particles at the surface of Al2O3 support."
          [3] "The Pt particles can be tightly stabilized on the heteroatoms in the lattice of oxide substrate [11] ."
          [4] "Small Pt particles stabilized in the lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) produces a highly selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [12] ."
          [5] "Pt particles confined at the Sn single-site in zeolite framework show high catalytic performance in the propane dehydrogenation, and the enhanced performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the strong interaction between the Pt particles and the framework of Sn-zeolite [13] ."
          [6] "The PtSn bimetallic particles are confined in the mesopores, which allow them to become a stable catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at high temperature."
          [7] "The high efficiency of these PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is mainly attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles in the mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite."

Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors.
          β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity.
          The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity.
          Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst.
          Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%.
          The role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41  CrOx/MgO  CrOx/Si-2.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the nature of the support material, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, can affect the dispersion and stability of the active phase, thereby impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The interaction between the support and the active phase can also alter the electronic properties of the catalyst, which can further enhance its performance. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can reduce surface acidity and increase the number of active sites, while using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.

<!-- Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results -->

[1] "The physicochemical properties of catalysts have a significant impact on their catalytic behaviors. Chemical qualities, including acid strength and hydrothermal and pH stability, affect the selectivity toward the targeted alkene in dehydrogenation reactions, while the morphological and porous qualities can influence the diffusion efficiency."
          [2] "In this section, strategies focused on support modification for dehydrogenation catalysts are summarized (Table 3)."
          [3] "PDH is an acid-sensitive reaction, which signifies that proper acidity of the support is preferable for CH activation and propylene desorption, while unduly strong acidity, on the other hand, can generate a negative impact on the PDH process, possibly leading to CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation."
          [4] "As for zeolites, the Lewis acid sites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while the Brnsted acid sites are inductive factors in catalyzing cleavage reactions."
          [5] "For heterogeneous catalysts, one kinetic factor, the diffusion efficiency of the reactants and products, which is determined by the morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties of the supports, should be taken into consideration."
          [6] "Several strategies are proposed, focusing on shortening the diffusion path or diffusion resistance, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces, e.g., needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures."

[1] "Different characterization techniques including H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, C3H6-TPD, XPS, BET, CO-chemisorption, CO-DRIFT, and TGA were used to unravel the properties of catalysts."
          [2] "Enhanced propylene selectivity (98.5% Vs 96.4% @ 600 C and 24 h TOS) and catalyst stability were achieved due to the decrease of acid centers of Al2O3 along with an increase of the degree of alloy formation upon addition of Ca."
          [3] "The experimental data of propane conversion vs. time were successfully fitted with the Deactivation Model with Residual Activity (DMRA), allowing for the calculation of the intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters for both catalysts."
          [4] "For the Ca-promoted catalyst, a deactivation function of 0.05 h1 along with a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C were obtained."
          [5] "Whereas, for the non-promoted sample, these values were 0.22 h1 and 0.63, respectively."
          [6] "The activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Pt0.5-Ge1.5/Al2O3-CaO catalyst was slightly higher than that of the unmodified one (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to the enhanced reduction of the GeOx species on this sample, which enhanced the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, decreasing the initial activity of the catalyst."
          [7] "However, the higher resistance against the deactivation by coke of the promoted catalyst was invoked to explain the better performance of this catalyst in terms both of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions."

The Lewis acid site arising from the unsaturated AlIII site in the Al2O3 structure is the active site for the catalytic cycle.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst shows the highest yield, which delivers an initial conversion of 48% and selectivity of 83%.
          A majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The formation of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.

[1] "The synthesis procedure employed a diammonium-type bromide surfactant [C18H37N(CH3)2C6H12N(CH3)2C4H9Br2] and a sodium-free silica source."
          [2] "The presence of silanol nests in the resultant zeolite was confirmed by IR and NMR spectroscopies."
          [3] "When the zeolite was supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y using nitrate precursors, a remarkably long catalytic lifetime of 20 days was obtained with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under the reaction condition using neat propane gas at 853 K."
          [4] "The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles exhibited fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption behavior at room temperature, whereas the monometallic Pt nanoparticles showed only partially reversible chemisorption (4050% reversibility) due to the formation of a strong Pt-H bond."
          [5] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts were even superior to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of catalytic durability."
          [6] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 d as mentioned above, but PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl was deactivated within 1 d, similar to that of Pt(0.5)/MZ-sc."
          [7] "The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite."
          [8] "The HAADF-STEM images show that the metal nanoparticles were homogeneously distributed throughout the support material in all cases."
          [9] "The size of the metal particles was approximately 2 nm for all four samples."
          [10] "The EDS analysis results confirmed that these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Y in the same particle."
          [11] "The average atomic ratio of Pt to Y was determined to be approximately 3 for both PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br samples, which agrees well with the Pt/Y ratio of Pt3Y intermetallic alloys supported on MZ-dg in a previous study."
          [12] "The conversion-vs-time plot in Fig. 6 a shows that the three PtY(0.5) catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period (12 h) to reach the full conversion."
          [13] "The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value (42% at 853 K) during the early reaction period (e.g., < 7 d in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br)."
          [14] "The TGA profile for the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst showed that 37 wt% of coke species were deposited on the catalyst sample."
          [15] "The measured spacing value of 0.403 nm corresponding to the Pt3Y L12 superlattice closely matched the known value of the Pt3Y bulk structure (i.e., 0.400 nm taken from PDF 00017-0058)."
          [16] "The results show that there is an inverse relationship between the propane conversion and the metal loading amount when the catalysts were fully activated."
          [17] "The conversion-vs-loading relationship appears to originate from increasing metal dispersion (or decreasing particle size) at low loadings."
          [18] "The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading appears to be due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst."

"CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."

The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. The experimental parameters had a beneficial effect on the concentration of Zrcus4+ ions, and the concentration of surface lattice oxygen, which in tandem play an active role in propane activation.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.
The preparation of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt.
The enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
The stability was improved in the presence of CO2 (compared to DDH); ca. 74% of the original activity was retained after 10 h on-stream, which is relatively good compared to Ga- and Cr-based catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
The role of CO2 in ODH-CO2 is to assist the above equilibrium by removing H2via the RWGS reaction.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
The initial STY of this catalyst was 10.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 13, entry 4), which is amongst the most active reported to date, but requires significant improvements to its on-stream stability.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 (Table 13) and some Ga2O3 catalysts (Table 12).
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
The authors concluded that the relative proportions of V3+, V4+ and V5+ species present on the catalyst surface were affected by V loading and at the optimal loading of 12 wt%, a high concentration of isolated V3+ species was detected.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
The combined and synergistic effect of the surface acidity modifications, their influence on the active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitated desorption of propene and inhibited the deep dehydrogenation that leads to coke precursors.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The highest STY achieved was 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 7).
The moderate vanadium doping level was conducive to highly dispersed vanadium species in the form of isolated and low-polymerized VOx species.
Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability.
The STY was 6.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 5), due to the low GHSV so while the catalyst achieved high selectivity at reasonable propane conversion, it was not as intrinsically active as other supported VOx catalysts.
The most active catalyst, V/Si-beta (having 3 wt% V loading) displayed an initial propene yield of 33.4% and retained activity over multiple dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The STY was 4.4 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 6), which is 56 times less active than the most active VOx catalysts reported to date, suggesting that Si-beta does not facilitate a high concentration of active V sites.
It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).
The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species.
For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C.
This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported.
The STY of ZrO2 without VOx is actually much higher than in the current work.
The most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method.
The role of the other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear so further work to elucidate this could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.
The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels.
The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation.
The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.
The preparation of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.
The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond.
The metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.
The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
It was found that over 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2, the propene yield increased from 6.5% to 9.1% when CO2 was co-fed instead of Ar.
In contrast, the alumina supported catalyst was inhibited by the addition of CO2, as shown by the drop in propene yield from 12.7% to 3.3%.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/AC material was unaffected by CO2 addition.
The Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
Relative to many other metal oxides, Cr2O3 is considered to be one of the most promising catalysts for ODH-CO2.
Takehira et al. compared the catalytic performance of several d block and p block oxides (namely Cr, Ga, Ni, V, Fe, Mn and Co) supported on MCM-41, at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 molar ratio of 5.6.
After 30 min on-stream, the propene yield of the Cr-based catalyst was 15% whereas for the Ga-based counterpart it was 5%.
The remaining catalysts all exhibited lower propene yields (in the 14% range).
However, as the catalysts were not characterised, it is unclear if the dispersion of these catalysts was comparable, and therefore if the results reflect the true intrinsic activity of each metal.
It was also noted that the order of reactivity resembled the trends observed by Nakagawa et al. for diamond-supported metal catalysts in the DDH reaction.
This suggests that there are commonalities in catalyst design between DDH and ODH-CO2 which most likely relate to the interaction of the alkane with the catalyst.
Contrary to this, Zhang et al. compared ZrO2, SBA-15 and γ-Al2O3 as supports for Cr2O3 in the DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions.
They found that the highest propene yield was observed with different catalyst systems under different dehydrogenation reactions, i.e., the activity trends in DDH did not translate to ODH-CO2 catalysts.
Specifically, Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was the most active for the DDH reaction, while the highest yield of propene for the ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions was observed over Cr2O3/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 7).
Across all the catalysts however, the highest propene yields were generally observed in the DDH reaction, ascribed to the production of carbon oxides in the ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 reactions.
However, it was reported that Cr2O3/ZrO2 was more stable on-stream in ODH-CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
Wu et al. also observed increased stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2 in the presence of CO2 (Table 11, entry 4).
They reported that the CO formation rate was higher than the CO2 consumption rate and the excess CO was suggested to originate from the Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C  2CO); this could explain the increased stability of this catalyst.
It is possible that some dry reforming of propane also took place, which would produce H2 and CO.
Zhao et al. recently reported the facile preparation of Cr supported in mesoporous ZrO2 using an evaporation-induced self-assembly method (Table 11, entry 6).
The authors suggested that propene could react with carbon dioxide to form carbon monoxide, methane and water.
Other studies have reported a stronger inhibition effect for Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2.
For instance, Ferreira et al. studied the adsorption properties of CO2 and concluded that it binds strongly to active Cr2O3 sites, lowering the activity and stability of the catalyst,
whereas Xie et al. suggested that coke formation could originate from CO2 hydrogenation over Cr2+ species.
These conflicting reports may relate to the structural polymorph of ZrO2 present in the catalyst support; this factor is often overlooked, but recent studies from Kondratenko et al. revealed that nanocrystalline ZrO2 is an active DDH catalyst in its own right151,152 under similar reaction conditions.
The ZrO2 crystal phase and crystallite size were strongly correlated to the catalyst activity: smaller crystallites were more active but amorphous ZrO2 had very low intrinsic activity.
Moreover, monoclinic ZrO2 was more active than tetragonal ZrO2.
Cr2O3-catalysed ODH-CO2 has been examined over different polymorphs of SiO2,254256 including various structured porous oxides, including SBA-1,84 SBA-15,250,257 MCM-41,91 amorphous silica84 and mesoporous silica spheres.258
Notably, Michorczyk et al. reported a detailed comparison of different silica supports, coupled with an in-depth characterisation study.84
It was shown that in each case, the same active Cr species was formed, namely Cr6+, but higher surface area silicas (e.g., SBA-1 and SBA-15) were able to facilitate a higher number of such sites.
A clear correlation was found between the rate of propene formation and the wt% of Cr6+, as determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).
In DDH, while Cr6+ is considered active, under reaction conditions Cr3+ is rapidly formed and considered the principle active species.93,94
The selectivity to propene was similar across the different silica supports (8893%), with the observed differences being attributable to differences in propane conversion rather than catalytic properties.
These Cr2O3/SiO2 catalysts were highly active at 550 C and the most active catalyst (Cr2O3/SBA-1) achieved a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, as shown in Table 11, entry 12.
It should be noted that the experiments were carried out with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 5, which as discussed above, has been shown to enable a higher equilibrium yield of propene.
Therefore, in studies where high conversions are generally targeted and carbon dioxide is in excess of propane, higher propene yields are reported.
Takehira et al. carried out X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) on CrOx/MCM-41, confirming that the reduction of Cr6+ occurs during the reaction.91
Specifically, they identified Cr6+O4 tetrahedra as the active species.
These Cr3+O6 octahedra were formed after reduction, which were considered to be less active.
It was shown that CO2 could re-oxidise the Cr, which suggests that the redox cycle between Cr6+ and Cr3+ is an important process during the reaction.
Yi et al. discriminated between isolated Cr6+ and polymeric Cr6+, finding that after reduction, isolated Cr3+ was more active than polymeric Cr3+. This underlines the importance of Cr dispersion in these catalysts.259
In a more detailed examination of Cr2O3/SBA-1, the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the catalyst and the observed activity were explored.85
Michorczyk et al. found a strong positive correlation between the initial propene yield and the reducibility of the catalyst, specifically the H2 consumption.
In situ UV-vis measurements revealed that Cr6+ is rapidly reduced to Cr3+ or Cr2+ in the presence of C3H8 under reaction conditions.
The reaction proceeds through a Mars-Van Krevelen mechanism, via the Cr2+/3+ redox couple.
Rapid deactivation, typical of Cr2O3 catalysts, was observed, although the majority of the initial activity could be recovered after regeneration in air.
The remainder was ascribed to pore collapse and/or the formation of inactive Cr sites, although the loss of surface Cr sites through agglomeration was not considered.
Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260
The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene.
While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air.
This severely limits the utility of this catalyst.
Zeolites have also been considered as catalyst supports for Cr2O3.
Zhang et al. prepared CrOx/Na-ZSM-5 via incipient wetness.261
Although the initial conversion and selectivity was high (48% and 86%, respectively) (Table 11, entry 5), the catalysts deactivated rapidly and the reaction conditions were such that the STY was only 2.5 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 2.
Zhu et al. investigated a range of MFI supports, including silicalite-1 and H[B]MFI.262
CrOx/H[B]MFI was found to be the most active catalyst, giving a STY of 4.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C with a CO2:C3H8 of 1 (Table 11, entry 15).
Although the as-prepared catalyst exhibited typically poor stability for Cr catalysts, steam treating the catalyst resulted in a marked improvement.
After 60 h on-stream, the as-prepared catalyst retained only 25% of its initial conversion, while the steam treated catalyst retained ca. 74%.
The authors ascribed the effect to stabilised Cr3+ formed in the steam treatment.
Presumably the reduction of Cr6+ during the reaction results in an inactive or less active Cr3+ species.
It should also be noted that the as-prepared catalyst was initially almost twice as active as the steam treated catalyst, which leaves the possibility that at higher conversions, increased coke formation may have occurred which would exaggerate the deactivation compared to the steam treated catalyst.
Ideally such stability comparisons would be made at isoconversion, however this discovery is one of only a few that shows improved stability on-stream.
Recently, Michorczyk et al. prepared a Cr-β-zeolite and investigated the effect of dealumination, which clearly elucidated the effect of acidity on the catalytic performance.263
It was reported that the dealuminated catalyst, Cr-SiBeta, exhibited significantly higher propene yields (up to 27%), compared to the Al-containing catalyst, Cr-AlBeta (2%).
The presence of acid sites in the Cr-AlBeta catalyst resulted in cracking pathways that led to increased production of methane and ethene.
Moreover, the CrAlbeta catalyst performed less well in the presence of CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
This was explained by the strong adsorption of CO2 on the catalyst, similar to the inhibition observed over Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts.
The stability of the dealuminated catalyst was also improved compared with CrAlbeta, but significant loss in activity was observed over the 4 h reaction.
In considering the redox properties of the catalysts in this work, and their previous investigations, the authors also identified a strong correlation between the H2 consumption from H2-TPR studies and the reported propene yield, as shown in Fig. 10.
While the majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial.
Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264
After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream.
In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period.
Using three-stage H2-TPR experiments (where the catalyst is reduced twice under H2 and then re-oxidised in CO2 before the final H2-TPR program), the authors showed that the addition of Ni facilitated the re-oxidation of Cr during the reaction.
This is consistent with previously reported mechanisms of deactivation over Cr-based catalysts, although coking is also often reported to cause deactivation.
Interestingly, the promoted catalyst was marginally more prone to coking.
This strongly suggests that overreduction of active Cr sites is the key deactivation mechanism over these catalysts.
There is a lot of potential to develop promoted Cr catalysts that could enhance the redox activity of the catalyst; precious metals including Pd and Pt are often supported on reducible supports for this purpose.265
Crucially, it was found that above 0.5 wt% Ni, propane reforming was prevalent, which underlines the importance of appropriate loadings of promotors.
O'Brien et al. investigated the effect of a Ru promoter to a 10 wt% CrOx/SiO2 catalyst.
Consistent with Yun et al. it was shown that the propene formation rate was increased.
A 1 wt% Ru loading was optimal and doubled the activity.
Interestingly, this is approximately the same molar ratio reported as the optimum by Yun et al. for Ni-promoted CrOx/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 14).
Another similarity was the propensity of reforming to dominate at high loadings (>1 wt%).
The enhanced stability seen in Ni-promoted Cr catalysts was not observed in this work and the activity could not be fully recovered after regeneration.
Consequently, aggregation of Cr species was suggested as an additional deactivation mechanism in addition to coke formation and overreduction of Cr.
Rather than aid Cr re-oxidation in a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation, the authors concluded that the Ru promotes the RWGS reaction, which removes H2 and increases the equilibrium conversion of propane.
However, the results of three-stage H2-TPR reactions indicated that Cr can be more easily oxidised in the presence of Ru, which suggests that Ru can participate in a similar role as Ni-promoted Cr catalysts.
Overall supported chromium oxide catalysts represent one of the most active classes of ODH-CO2 catalysts, with STY values in the range of 222 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
The correct balance of acidic and basic sites is a key consideration in catalyst design.
Equally, the ratio of carbon dioxide to propane is important to take in account, as it has kinetic and thermodynamic implications.
Thermodynamically, higher CO2:C3H8 ratios limit coke forming side-reactions.
The addition of CO2 in the dehydrogenation reaction has multiple effects: As discussed in Section 2, it facilitates the RWGS reaction which removes H2 from the system and shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium limit to favour propene production.
Additionally, CO2 can dissociate on the surface of a catalyst and provide O species to dehydrogenate propane directly.
Finally, it can react with coke via the reverse-Boudouard reaction to produce CO, which can potentially extend the lifetime of the catalyst.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial.
Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial, Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
Using NH3-TPD analysis, the authors concluded that weak Lewis acid sites were conducive to high activity.
These acidbase properties most likely contribute to the enhanced stability as well; it is known that stronger acid sites promote oligomerisation pathways that produce coke.
The increased performance of Ga2O3/ZSM-48 was attributed to the abundance of weak and medium strength acid sites.
The low activity of Ga2O3/MgO and Ga2O3/SiO2 was ascribed to the absence of medium and strong acid sites.
In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced.
This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
It was found that 10 mol% Fe in CeO2 exhibited the highest propene yield.
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
They showed that reforming pathways were more prevalent at higher CO2:C3H8 ratios, such as 2.5:1 and 5:1.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 and some Ga2O3 catalysts.
The number of studies on supported nanoparticle catalysts for ODH-CO2 are relatively few and those available indicate that this field of research has great potential.
The major challenge is in understanding and inhibiting side-reactions such as reforming, which are known to proceed over this class of catalyst, unlike in Cr- and Ga-based catalysts.
Careful consideration of the nanostructure and composition has shown that the selectivity can be readily tuned to favour different pathways, and further investigation in this area may well be able to harness the high activity of supported nanoparticles as well as favour dehydrogenation pathways.
Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental.
The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America.
The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale.
With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
The majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%).
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.
The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst.
The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [2] "The extent of PtSn interactions depends on the impregnation sequence of Pt and Sn precursors on the support material."
          [3] "The framework of microporous zeolites exerts dispersive forces on the reactant's molecules that depend on the shape, channel and cavity of the framework."
          [4] "In addition, the nature and the density of the active sites influence the framework dispersion forces."
          [5] "Recent reports have shown that the strong electrostatic field between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species can enhance and/or induce polarization of bonds in hydrocarbon adsorbates."
          [6] "This agrees with Hashiguchi et al. [26] , who found enhanced activation of the CH bond on a homogeneous catalyst."
          [7] "Wender et al. [27] showed that 3040% of heat adsorption in n-alkanes on Na-zeolite is due to polarization of the adsorbates."
          [8] "Subbotina et al. [28] also demonstrated that the CH bond of ethane is more strongly polarized on Mg2 + and Ca2 + forms of Y zeolite than on Na+ forms."
          [9] "Based on charge density considerations, Mg2 + cations are expected to exhibit a stronger polarizing effect than Ca2 + cations."
          [10] "Subbotina et al. explain that because of the smaller ionic radius of Mg2 +, it is more strongly shielded by the surrounding oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice than a Ca2 + ion, thereby reducing the polarizing effect of Mg2 + on the hydrocarbon adsorbate."
          [11] "Sievers et al. [29] ,[30] also report that the La3 + form of X zeolite induces strong polarization of adsorbed alkane molecules; partial positive charges were induced on secondary and tertiary carbon atoms of alkane molecules."
          [12] "The authors suggest that the polarization may be viewed as an intermediate condition to hydride abstraction (which is an important elementary step in CH activation)."
          [13] "They add that CH bond polarization was enhanced by physisorbed water molecules that coordinate with La3 + cations."
          [14] "The enhanced polarization of CH bonds by the presence of water molecules on La3 +X zeolite may have a beneficial effect in oxidative dehydrogenation where water is a by-product."
          [15] "Alkane polarization studies on Na+, Mg2 +, Ca2 +, and La3 + exchanged X-zeolites indicate that the polarizing effect increases with increasing charge magnitude and ionic radius."
          [16] "Note that these alkane polarizing cations occupy the same position on the zeolites as the well-known CH activation cations/metals, and thus the CH polarizing effect has a complementary effect on CH activation."
          [17] "This may add to the number of relevant variables and increase the challenge of optimizing the ratio of activation/polarizing cations among exchangeable sites (Si/Al ratio), as well as the sequence for incorporating the cations or metals during catalyst preparation."
          [18] "Further, it is important to note that the choice of cations should be such that they exhibit no catalytic (oligomerization, isomerization, aromatisation or oxidation) effects on the target alkene products at the reaction condition."
          [19] "Furthermore, it may be beneficial to create a CH polarization effect on the zeolite framework."
          [20] "This can be achieved by appropriate chance of framework atoms."
          [21] "Since active sites are usually created on the zeolite frameworks."
          [22] "The active sites (alkoxide intermediate) of the bimolecular pathway are formed in situ ( Scheme 1 )."
          [23] "The alkoxide intermediate is made up of an alkyl carbenium ion ionically held to the zeolite framework oxygen ion."
          [24] "The active sites of the unimolecular pathway are the charge balancing protons of the zeolite framework."
          [25] "A proton and a carbenium ion are an electrophilic or Lewis acid species (a proton can also be considered as a special case of Lewis acidity)."
          [26] "The two pathways essentially involve electrophilic CH activation."
          [27] "The electrophiles (proton and carbenium ion) activate CH at high temperatures (500 C), giving low conversion rates of light alkanes and poor selectivity to corresponding alkenes."
          [28] "The elementary steps of CH activation on OGa+ ( Scheme 2 ) reveal that a redox cycle at the metal center is required for catalytic CH activation via the oxidative addition mechanism."
          [29] "A redox cycle is not apparent in the elementary step presented for CH activation on OZn2+O."
          [30] "Hence, a redox cycle is not a requisite for CH activation via the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism."
          [31] "However, under alkane dehydrogenation reaction conditions, the OZn2+O sites can undergo a reversible Zn2 +/Zn redox process ( Scheme 3 )."
          [32] "This redox process increases the availability of undesired protonic site intermediates."
          [33] "Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 prepared by conventional ion-exchange methods contain a significant percentage of unexchanged proton sites leading to lower alkene selectivity of the catalyst."
          [34] "Iglesia and Biscardi [59] titrate the proton sites with NaOH."
          [35] "The un-titrated and the titrated catalysts are denoted as Zn/H-ZSMS-5 and Zn/Na-ZSMS-5, respectively."
          [36] "Zn/Na-ZSM-5 has four times the propane conversion rate and a higher propene selectivity than Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [37] "The propene formation rate obtained with Zn/Na-ZSM-5 was ten times that of Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [38] "The zinc species at the cation exchange site of the zeolite was identified as OZn+OH."
          [39] "The higher propene selectivity obtained on Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is presumably from the lower density and availability of proton sites on Zn/Na-ZSM-5."
          [40] "The improved propane conversion rate of Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is attributable to the higher efficiency of OZn+OH sites in catalyzing desorption of H-adatoms than OZn2+O sites."
          [41] "Another strategy to enhance alkene selectivity is by controlling the strength of the proton sites."
          [42] "The acidity of the sites depends on the nature of the trivalent cation of the zeolite framework."
          [43] "Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker than those of aluminosilicate [60] ,[61] ,[62] ,[63] ,[64] , and thus higher alkene selectivity is expected for alkane dehydrogenation over Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H[Al]-ZSM-5."
          [44] "However, Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows no activity for propane dehydrogenation."
          [45] "The desired weaker acidity of the proton sites of Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 requires weaker basicity of the oxygen atoms in the zeolite framework."
          [46] "This reduced basicity of the oxygen atoms is not sufficiently polarizing to complement the exchanged Zn2 + in CH bond cleavage."
          [47] "In the next section, we examine use of zeolite support to design a Pt-based alkane dehydrogenation catalyst."
          [48] "Elimination of the proton sites of zeolites is critical for obtaining a high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts."
          [49] "Pt is the most versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions [65] ."
          [50] "Although Pt is expensive, the choice of Pt is often justified by its higher activity, stability and selectivity for these reactions compared to less expensive alternative transition metals."
          [51] "However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge even when using a Pt-based catalyst for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [52] "Waku et al. [66] exploited the unique property of zeolite as a support for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites to create a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [53] "They found that the catalyst deactivation rate of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was lower than for any other Pt-based catalysts in refractory oxide support."
          [54] "The unprecedented performance of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was attributed to its high Pt dispersion (cluster size < 1 mm) on zeolite through ion-exchange."
          [55] "There is a tendency to generate some Brnsted protons on the zeolite during the exchange process, but the choice of Fe3 + as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3 + led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM."
          [56] "The weaker acidity minimizes the tendency of side reactions (cracking of oligomerization, aromatisation, and coke), which translates into higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability."
          [57] "In another report, Xuebing and Iglesia [67] demonstrated the ability of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 to dehydrogenate alkanes longer than C4; n-pentane and n-heptane were selectively converted to n-pentene and n-heptene, respectively."
          [58] "Alkene selectivity was also improved when the residual proton generated during Pt exchange or Na-[Fe]-ZSM was titrated with Cs [67] ."
          [59] "Although Pt with conventional refractory oxides (Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, etc.) used for dehydrogenation of alkanes has similar conversion rates to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, deactivation rates are also rapid due to coke formation."
          [60] "The presence of acid (Bronsted and Lewis) sites on the supports promotes readsorption, oligomerization and aromatisation of alkenes."
          [61] "Promotion of Pt with metals, such as Sn, Ga, Zn, Re, etc., improves catalyst stability, but also leads to faster deactivation rates than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [62] "However, recent reports by Bell et al. [68] ,[69] ,[70] show that the use of calcined hydrotalcite (Al/Mg  0.1) supported on bimetallic PtGa or PtSn gave very high alkene selectivity and stability, comparable to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [63] "At this stage, we can conclude that differences in the performance of Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 obtained by Kanansky et al. [53] are attributable to their respective CH activation mechanisms."
          [64] "In addition, the role of exchanged Zn and Ga as promoters of RD becomes evident from the mechanisms ( Scheme 2 )."
          [65] "The RD mechanism on Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 is by reductive elimination of a hydrogen molecule from O[Ga(H)2]+ intermediate."
          [66] "Decomposition of ZnR and a protonic site, or neutralization of the proton sites by ZnH, leads to desorption of the hydrogen molecule on the Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5."
          [67] "By extrapolation, the mechanisms of CH activation on exchanged Zn and Ga H-ZSM-5 can described the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on Cr-based and Pt-based catalysts respectively."
          [68] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
          [69] "However, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism could also explain the proposed CH activation on Cr-based catalysts."
          [70] "Now, the nature and the role of surface oxygen species become more evident."
          [71] "The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity."
          [72] "The highlights in this section are presented in Table 2 ."
          [73] "The table reveals the insights achieved on the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity and catalyst stability for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [74] "Nonetheless, the level of catalyst activity is still far from acceptable, even at high temperature."
          [75] "A recent report by Rothenberg et al. [71] provides a lead in this respect."
          [76] "Their report indicates that a porous copperaluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance (activity/selectivity/stability) for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3."
          [77] "Of particular interest, is the suggestion that achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C may be possible."
          [78] "Few details are known about the structure of the porous copperaluminum framework material."
          [79] "However, copper is implicated as providing the active sites for the catalysis."
          [80] "Also, that the material activated in oxygen gave higher propane conversion rates than those activated in inert gas atmosphere underscores the role of the surface oxide (oxygen species) in the catalysis."
          [81] "Thus, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may be invoked here, and the redox property of the metal center is likely to play a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C."
          [82] "This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."

[3] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [4] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [5] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [6] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [7] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [8] "The pore size is also considered to have a slight effect on the catalytic activity, i.e., lower activation barriers for reactions in zeolites with larger pore size."
          [9] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [10] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [11] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [12] "Although the general trend of catalytic activity is not as easy to be addressed for these as for metal systems, the case studies still shed light on dehydrogenation mechanisms in these systems, and more insights emerge which are normally difficult to be explored at molecular level even by the most advanced experimental equipment."
          [13] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [14] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [15] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [16] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [17] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [18] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [19] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [20] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [21] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
          [22] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."

[1] "PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month."
          [2] "The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one."
          [3] "Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles."
          [4] "Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time."
          [5] "The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited."
          [6] "Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts."
          [7] "Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH."
          [8] "The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites."
          [9] "Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent."
          [10] "The resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH."



Al2O3 is one of the most commonly used supports in heterogeneous catalysis due to its structural advantages and stability.
          The coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites present on the (100) facets of commercial γ-Al2O3 can serve as anchor sites to anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites.
          The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 can allow the tetrahedral Ga3+ cations to highly disperse in the spinel-type γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 solid solution, leading to an enhanced activity and stability in PDH reaction.
          The γ-Al2O3 nanosheet containing 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites has been proved that it could nicely disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters because of the strong interactions between metals and support.
          This PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent performance at an ultrahigh space velocity in a long-term PDH reaction.
          In addition to being an appropriate support, the hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 showed a high activity of coordinately unsaturated Al3+ as the surface active sites in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene.
          Furthermore, the diversity and complexity on the structure of Al2O3, for example the surface acidity at the low-coordinated Al sites, determined the different properties in the adsorption and the activation of propane as well as coke deposition in the PDH reaction.
          Herein, a one-step hydrothermal method is employed to synthesize sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficiently catalyzing the PDH reaction.
          The structural and catalytic stabilities as well as the CoAl2O3 interaction for these catalysts are benchmarked to an impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst.
          We further illustrate the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in the Co-catalyzed PDH reaction.

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
          [2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
          [3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
          [4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
          [5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
          [6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
          [7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."
          [8] "The introduction of Pt species via impregnation does not change the dispersion of Zn species on Si-Beta support."
          [9] "The close contact between Pt-Zn species and the electronic interaction thereof make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts."

[1] "NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts."
          [2] "NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity."
          [3] "Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds."
          [4] "High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination temperatures of 400500 C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability."

[1] "The stability of the Pt particles at the surface of supports can be greatly enhanced by the manipulation of metal-support interaction [9] ,[10] ."
          [2] "The Al2O3 with coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites can stabilize the atomically dispersed Pt specie via the formation of Al3+ penta-O-Pt bond, which results in anchoring Pt particles at the surface of Al2O3 support."
          [3] "The Pt particles can be tightly stabilized on the heteroatoms in the lattice of oxide substrate [11] ."
          [4] "Small Pt particles stabilized in the lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) produces a highly selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [12] ."
          [5] "Pt particles confined at the Sn single-site in zeolite framework show high catalytic performance in the propane dehydrogenation, and the enhanced performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the strong interaction between the Pt particles and the framework of Sn-zeolite [13] ."
          [6] "The PtSn bimetallic particles are confined in the mesopores, which allow them to become a stable catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at high temperature."
          [7] "The high efficiency of these PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is mainly attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles in the mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite."

Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors.
          β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity.
          The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity.
          Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst.
          Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%.
          The role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41  CrOx/MgO  CrOx/Si-2.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the nature of the support material, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, can affect the dispersion and stability of the active phase, thereby impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The interaction between the support and the active phase can also alter the electronic properties of the catalyst, which can further enhance its performance. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can reduce surface acidity and increase the number of active sites, while using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.

<!-- Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results -->

[1] "The physicochemical properties of catalysts have a significant impact on their catalytic behaviors. Chemical qualities, including acid strength and hydrothermal and pH stability, affect the selectivity toward the targeted alkene in dehydrogenation reactions, while the morphological and porous qualities can influence the diffusion efficiency."
          [2] "In this section, strategies focused on support modification for dehydrogenation catalysts are summarized (Table 3)."
          [3] "PDH is an acid-sensitive reaction, which signifies that proper acidity of the support is preferable for CH activation and propylene desorption, while unduly strong acidity, on the other hand, can generate a negative impact on the PDH process, possibly leading to CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation."
          [4] "As for zeolites, the Lewis acid sites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while the Brnsted acid sites are inductive factors in catalyzing cleavage reactions."
          [5] "For heterogeneous catalysts, one kinetic factor, the diffusion efficiency of the reactants and products, which is determined by the morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties of the supports, should be taken into consideration."
          [6] "Several strategies are proposed, focusing on shortening the diffusion path or diffusion resistance, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces, e.g., needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures."

[1] "Different characterization techniques including H2-TPR, NH3-TPD, C3H6-TPD, XPS, BET, CO-chemisorption, CO-DRIFT, and TGA were used to unravel the properties of catalysts."
          [2] "Enhanced propylene selectivity (98.5% Vs 96.4% @ 600 C and 24 h TOS) and catalyst stability were achieved due to the decrease of acid centers of Al2O3 along with an increase of the degree of alloy formation upon addition of Ca."
          [3] "The experimental data of propane conversion vs. time were successfully fitted with the Deactivation Model with Residual Activity (DMRA), allowing for the calculation of the intrinsic deactivation kinetic parameters for both catalysts."
          [4] "For the Ca-promoted catalyst, a deactivation function of 0.05 h1 along with a residual activity of 0.82 at 600 C were obtained."
          [5] "Whereas, for the non-promoted sample, these values were 0.22 h1 and 0.63, respectively."
          [6] "The activation energy of the PDH reaction for the Pt0.5-Ge1.5/Al2O3-CaO catalyst was slightly higher than that of the unmodified one (74.8 kJ/mol vs. 66.4 kJ/mol) due to the enhanced reduction of the GeOx species on this sample, which enhanced the formation of a Pt-Ge alloy, decreasing the initial activity of the catalyst."
          [7] "However, the higher resistance against the deactivation by coke of the promoted catalyst was invoked to explain the better performance of this catalyst in terms both of activity and selectivity at steady state conditions."

The Lewis acid site arising from the unsaturated AlIII site in the Al2O3 structure is the active site for the catalytic cycle.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst shows the highest yield, which delivers an initial conversion of 48% and selectivity of 83%.
          A majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The formation of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The Lewis acid sites in Al2O3 is mainly due to the defective AIII site in the structure.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst which exhibits the highest yield was further studied to determine its regenerability in the propane dehydrogenation reaction.
          The deactivation is reversible in this catalyst.
          The γ-Al2O3-200 catalyst is regenerable in the propane dehydrogenation reaction, which allows it to be a sustainable catalyst for industrial application.
          According to the NH3 desorption temperature, a majority of weak acid sites exist in γ-Al2O3-100 and θ-Al2O3-90, and a high level of strong acid sites is observable in γ-Al2O3-200.
          The calculated acid site distribution in these samples is given in Table 1, and γ-Al2O3 possesses more Lewis acid sites than θ-Al2O3.
          The propane conversion rate is positively linked to the amount of Lewis acid sites in Al2O3, which also indicates that the Lewis acid sites could be the active sites for propane dehydrogenation.

[1] "The synthesis procedure employed a diammonium-type bromide surfactant [C18H37N(CH3)2C6H12N(CH3)2C4H9Br2] and a sodium-free silica source."
          [2] "The presence of silanol nests in the resultant zeolite was confirmed by IR and NMR spectroscopies."
          [3] "When the zeolite was supported with 0.50 wt% Pt and 0.50 wt% Y using nitrate precursors, a remarkably long catalytic lifetime of 20 days was obtained with high propane conversion and propylene selectivity under the reaction condition using neat propane gas at 853 K."
          [4] "The Pt3Y alloy nanoparticles exhibited fully reversible hydrogen chemisorption behavior at room temperature, whereas the monometallic Pt nanoparticles showed only partially reversible chemisorption (4050% reversibility) due to the formation of a strong Pt-H bond."
          [5] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH catalysts were even superior to PtY(0.5)/MZ-dg in terms of catalytic durability."
          [6] "The PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst exhibited slow deactivation over 20 d as mentioned above, but PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br-NaCl was deactivated within 1 d, similar to that of Pt(0.5)/MZ-sc."
          [7] "The mesoporous zeolite-supported Pt3Y catalyst deactivates slowly in propane dehydrogenation, maintaining high propane conversion and propylene selectivity, but the formation of the intermetallic compound requires atomistic migration of yttrium through silanol nests on the zeolite."
          [8] "The HAADF-STEM images show that the metal nanoparticles were homogeneously distributed throughout the support material in all cases."
          [9] "The size of the metal particles was approximately 2 nm for all four samples."
          [10] "The EDS analysis results confirmed that these metal nanoparticles contained both Pt and Y in the same particle."
          [11] "The average atomic ratio of Pt to Y was determined to be approximately 3 for both PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-OH and PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br samples, which agrees well with the Pt/Y ratio of Pt3Y intermetallic alloys supported on MZ-dg in a previous study."
          [12] "The conversion-vs-time plot in Fig. 6 a shows that the three PtY(0.5) catalysts supported on silanol nest-containing zeolites have an activation period (12 h) to reach the full conversion."
          [13] "The propane conversion was somewhat higher than the equilibrium value (42% at 853 K) during the early reaction period (e.g., < 7 d in PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br)."
          [14] "The TGA profile for the spent PtY(0.5)/MZ-sf-Br catalyst showed that 37 wt% of coke species were deposited on the catalyst sample."
          [15] "The measured spacing value of 0.403 nm corresponding to the Pt3Y L12 superlattice closely matched the known value of the Pt3Y bulk structure (i.e., 0.400 nm taken from PDF 00017-0058)."
          [16] "The results show that there is an inverse relationship between the propane conversion and the metal loading amount when the catalysts were fully activated."
          [17] "The conversion-vs-loading relationship appears to originate from increasing metal dispersion (or decreasing particle size) at low loadings."
          [18] "The relatively low durability at low catalyst loading appears to be due to the increased fraction of the zeolite support in the catalyst."

"CrOx supported on high-silica HZSM-5 with a SiO2/Al2O3 ratio of 260 (Cr/Z-5(260) is synthesized by a simple wet impregnation method, which exhibits high catalytic activity, good selectivity and excellent stability for PDH."
          "The exploitation of an efficient PDH catalyst based on HZSM-5 zeolite to achieve both high selectivity and stability is still a great challenge."
          "In zeolite supported catalysts, zeolite is usually not an inert support, which can provide a special environment (e.g., channel confinement effects, acidic sites and electron transfer) for catalytic reactions."
          "Especially, the acidic sites in zeolites play a key role in determining the catalytic performance of zeolite catalysts in alkane conversion."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "The structural properties of the prepared CrOx catalysts are detected by N2 sorption technique."
          "The XRD patterns of parent HZSM-5(260) and Cr/Z-5(260) samples are very similar, indicating that the Cr loading makes little influence on the crystallite structure of HZSM-5 zeolite."
          "The acidity properties of the prepared Cr/Z-5, Cr/SiO2 and Cr/Al2O3 catalysts are detected by NH3-TPD technique."
          "The metal-support interactions between Cr species and HZSM-5 support were measured by XPS spectroscopy."
          "During the PDH tests, the high reaction temperature would result in coke formation onto the catalyst, which is the main cause of catalyst deactivation."
          "The interactions between react/product molecules and catalysts are very important in dehydrogenation process."
          "The effect of Cr loading amount and SiO2/Al2O3 ratio on the catalytic performance of Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was investigated in detail."
          "The role of Cr species and Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts was elucidated on the basis of the physicochemical characterizations, PDH tests and Na+ doping experiments."
          "Characterization results and Na+ doping experiments reveal that the Cr species combined with Brnsted acid sites in Cr/HZSM-5 catalysts are responsible for the high catalytic performance."
          "In particular, the Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5 zeolite could increase the propane adsorption and enhance the CH bond activation."
          "Furthermore, the high surface area and well-defined pores of HZSM-5 zeolite can provide a special environment for the dispersion and stabilization of Cr species, thus guaranteeing high catalytic activity and stability."
          "The selection of supports for preparation of Cr-based catalysts for PDH is of great significance."
          "Zeolites, possessing high surface area, well-defined channels, good thermal stability and tunable acidity, can be used as catalysts or supports for various catalytic reactions."
          "The high amounts of acidic sites of HZSM-5 zeolites are negative for PDH reaction. Only HZSM-5 zeolite has suitable acidic sites that can be used as a good support for CrOx catalysts for PDH process."
          "The Brnsted acid sites play an important role in determining the catalytic performance of Cr/Z-5 catalyst system."
          "The Brnsted acid sites in HZSM-5(260) play a key role in propane adsorption and activation, affecting their catalytic performance."

The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The concentration of dopant atoms, and the temperature of reduction were other contributing factors that affected the catalytic behaviour for ZrO2-based catalysts.3 Numerous binary YZrOx and LaZrOx-based catalysts displayed high activity, selectivity and stability as well as comparable performance to KCrOx/Al2O3 catalysts over the course of 60 DDH cycles at 550 C, 600 C and 625 C under industrially relevant conditions. The experimental parameters had a beneficial effect on the concentration of Zrcus4+ ions, and the concentration of surface lattice oxygen, which in tandem play an active role in propane activation.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The h-BN nanosheets provided abundant stacking fault edges terminated with BO defects that are associated with unpaired electrons, which strongly interact with active metal species, helping to strengthen the interaction between the metal and support.
The preparation of new catalysts with simultaneously enhanced activity, selectivity and stability is the ultimate goal.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The enhanced performance was ascribed to electron transfer and acid site modulation effects resulting in changes to the adsorption properties of Pt.
The enhanced performance and stability was attributed to ultra-small, uniformly dispersed particles, ranging in size from 1.0 to 1.4 nm, consistent with previous studies that observed structure-sensitivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
The stability was improved in the presence of CO2 (compared to DDH); ca. 74% of the original activity was retained after 10 h on-stream, which is relatively good compared to Ga- and Cr-based catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
The role of CO2 in ODH-CO2 is to assist the above equilibrium by removing H2via the RWGS reaction.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
The initial STY of this catalyst was 10.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 (Table 13, entry 4), which is amongst the most active reported to date, but requires significant improvements to its on-stream stability.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 (Table 13) and some Ga2O3 catalysts (Table 12).
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
The cationanion double hydrolysis approach (CADH), used for the synthesis of mesoporous Al2O3 with high surface area and a pure γ-Al2O3 phase, was undertaken with the crystallisation temperature varied between 25120 C.141 It was found that the crystallisation temperature of the support directly influenced the catalytic performance of the VOx/Al2O3 catalysts, which was a consequence of the increase in Lewis acid sites with increasing crystallization temperatures up to 100 C. This in turn affected the distribution of different surface V species.
The authors concluded that the relative proportions of V3+, V4+ and V5+ species present on the catalyst surface were affected by V loading and at the optimal loading of 12 wt%, a high concentration of isolated V3+ species was detected.
Gu et al. reported that P modification could greatly influence the structure and activity of VOx/Al2O3 catalysts.142 More specifically, P modification decreased the degree of VOx polymerization, which had positive implications on the catalyst stability, as evidenced by the retention of high activity (ca. 45% propane conversion) after an 8 h DDH reaction in all P-modified catalysts.
The combined and synergistic effect of the surface acidity modifications, their influence on the active V3+ species, and weakened metalsupport interactions facilitated desorption of propene and inhibited the deep dehydrogenation that leads to coke precursors.
Subsequent studies on a VOx/Al2O3 catalysts (with 12 wt% V loading) modified with Mg revealed the anti-coking capability and improved catalytic performance evident through propene yields of 1927% over a 6 h DDH reaction.143 It was found that the dispersing action of Mg modification to V2O5 crystallites and an increase in active V3+ species reduced the amount and polymerization of coke deposits.
The highest STY achieved was 7.8 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 7).
The moderate vanadium doping level was conducive to highly dispersed vanadium species in the form of isolated and low-polymerized VOx species.
Highly dispersed and stable VOx species, and an absence of V2O5 crystallites, were conducive to high catalytic activity and stability.
The STY was 6.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 5), due to the low GHSV so while the catalyst achieved high selectivity at reasonable propane conversion, it was not as intrinsically active as other supported VOx catalysts.
The most active catalyst, V/Si-beta (having 3 wt% V loading) displayed an initial propene yield of 33.4% and retained activity over multiple dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The STY was 4.4 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 6), which is 56 times less active than the most active VOx catalysts reported to date, suggesting that Si-beta does not facilitate a high concentration of active V sites.
It was found that VOx/ZrO2 is approximately five times more active than VOx/Al2O3 and pure ZrO2, exhibiting a STY of 9.2 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 2).
The authors proposed that the enhanced performance of VOx/ZrO2 results from the facile reduction of VO, VOV and VOZr bonds, thus producing higher proportions of the active V3+ species.
For the most active catalyst, with 8 wt% V loading, the initial yield of propene increased from 24% at 550 C to 28% at 575 C with a negligible (<1%) increase at 600 C.
This corresponded to a STY of 24 molC3H6 kg1cat h1 (Table 6, entry 3), which is one of the most active VOx-based catalysts reported.
The STY of ZrO2 without VOx is actually much higher than in the current work.
The most active V species has been identified, the relative proportion and stability of this surface V species can be tuned by varying the preparation method.
The role of the other V species on the DDH reaction remains unclear so further work to elucidate this could yield more active and stable DDH catalysts.
The range in performance of V-based catalysts varies quite significantly, with the most active catalysts exhibiting STYs that are around 34 time less active than the most active Pt catalysts.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass. In these cases, the feedstock is renewable and so these processes are potentially much more sustainable than when using fossil fuels.
The majority of analyses focus on well-established processes, where more information and data are available, but no such analyses were found for oxidative dehydrogenation.
The thermodynamic tendency to form undesirable by-products means that such reactions must be carefully kinetically controlled. Careful catalyst design can inhibit and even switch-off some of these side-reactions, as will be discussed in the subsequent sections.
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The preparation strategy could greatly influence the structure of Ga/SiO2 catalysts.
The preparation of GaRh supported catalytically active liquid metal solutions.
The GaPt alloy melts at temperatures between 270 C and 330 C.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond.
The metalsupport (VOsupport) interactions affect the resultant catalyst performance.
The catalyst deactivated quickly due to carbon deposition, but retained its initial activity over the course of ten successive dehydrogenationregeneration cycles.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
It was found that over 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2, the propene yield increased from 6.5% to 9.1% when CO2 was co-fed instead of Ar.
In contrast, the alumina supported catalyst was inhibited by the addition of CO2, as shown by the drop in propene yield from 12.7% to 3.3%.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/AC material was unaffected by CO2 addition.
The Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
Relative to many other metal oxides, Cr2O3 is considered to be one of the most promising catalysts for ODH-CO2.
Takehira et al. compared the catalytic performance of several d block and p block oxides (namely Cr, Ga, Ni, V, Fe, Mn and Co) supported on MCM-41, at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 molar ratio of 5.6.
After 30 min on-stream, the propene yield of the Cr-based catalyst was 15% whereas for the Ga-based counterpart it was 5%.
The remaining catalysts all exhibited lower propene yields (in the 14% range).
However, as the catalysts were not characterised, it is unclear if the dispersion of these catalysts was comparable, and therefore if the results reflect the true intrinsic activity of each metal.
It was also noted that the order of reactivity resembled the trends observed by Nakagawa et al. for diamond-supported metal catalysts in the DDH reaction.
This suggests that there are commonalities in catalyst design between DDH and ODH-CO2 which most likely relate to the interaction of the alkane with the catalyst.
Contrary to this, Zhang et al. compared ZrO2, SBA-15 and γ-Al2O3 as supports for Cr2O3 in the DDH, ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions.
They found that the highest propene yield was observed with different catalyst systems under different dehydrogenation reactions, i.e., the activity trends in DDH did not translate to ODH-CO2 catalysts.
Specifically, Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalyst was the most active for the DDH reaction, while the highest yield of propene for the ODH-CO2 and ODH-O2 reactions was observed over Cr2O3/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 7).
Across all the catalysts however, the highest propene yields were generally observed in the DDH reaction, ascribed to the production of carbon oxides in the ODH-O2 and ODH-CO2 reactions.
However, it was reported that Cr2O3/ZrO2 was more stable on-stream in ODH-CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
Wu et al. also observed increased stability of Cr2O3/ZrO2 in the presence of CO2 (Table 11, entry 4).
They reported that the CO formation rate was higher than the CO2 consumption rate and the excess CO was suggested to originate from the Boudouard reaction (CO2 + C  2CO); this could explain the increased stability of this catalyst.
It is possible that some dry reforming of propane also took place, which would produce H2 and CO.
Zhao et al. recently reported the facile preparation of Cr supported in mesoporous ZrO2 using an evaporation-induced self-assembly method (Table 11, entry 6).
The authors suggested that propene could react with carbon dioxide to form carbon monoxide, methane and water.
Other studies have reported a stronger inhibition effect for Cr2O3/ZrO2 catalysts in the presence of CO2.
For instance, Ferreira et al. studied the adsorption properties of CO2 and concluded that it binds strongly to active Cr2O3 sites, lowering the activity and stability of the catalyst,
whereas Xie et al. suggested that coke formation could originate from CO2 hydrogenation over Cr2+ species.
These conflicting reports may relate to the structural polymorph of ZrO2 present in the catalyst support; this factor is often overlooked, but recent studies from Kondratenko et al. revealed that nanocrystalline ZrO2 is an active DDH catalyst in its own right151,152 under similar reaction conditions.
The ZrO2 crystal phase and crystallite size were strongly correlated to the catalyst activity: smaller crystallites were more active but amorphous ZrO2 had very low intrinsic activity.
Moreover, monoclinic ZrO2 was more active than tetragonal ZrO2.
Cr2O3-catalysed ODH-CO2 has been examined over different polymorphs of SiO2,254256 including various structured porous oxides, including SBA-1,84 SBA-15,250,257 MCM-41,91 amorphous silica84 and mesoporous silica spheres.258
Notably, Michorczyk et al. reported a detailed comparison of different silica supports, coupled with an in-depth characterisation study.84
It was shown that in each case, the same active Cr species was formed, namely Cr6+, but higher surface area silicas (e.g., SBA-1 and SBA-15) were able to facilitate a higher number of such sites.
A clear correlation was found between the rate of propene formation and the wt% of Cr6+, as determined using X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS).
In DDH, while Cr6+ is considered active, under reaction conditions Cr3+ is rapidly formed and considered the principle active species.93,94
The selectivity to propene was similar across the different silica supports (8893%), with the observed differences being attributable to differences in propane conversion rather than catalytic properties.
These Cr2O3/SiO2 catalysts were highly active at 550 C and the most active catalyst (Cr2O3/SBA-1) achieved a STY of 7.9 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, as shown in Table 11, entry 12.
It should be noted that the experiments were carried out with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 5, which as discussed above, has been shown to enable a higher equilibrium yield of propene.
Therefore, in studies where high conversions are generally targeted and carbon dioxide is in excess of propane, higher propene yields are reported.
Takehira et al. carried out X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) on CrOx/MCM-41, confirming that the reduction of Cr6+ occurs during the reaction.91
Specifically, they identified Cr6+O4 tetrahedra as the active species.
These Cr3+O6 octahedra were formed after reduction, which were considered to be less active.
It was shown that CO2 could re-oxidise the Cr, which suggests that the redox cycle between Cr6+ and Cr3+ is an important process during the reaction.
Yi et al. discriminated between isolated Cr6+ and polymeric Cr6+, finding that after reduction, isolated Cr3+ was more active than polymeric Cr3+. This underlines the importance of Cr dispersion in these catalysts.259
In a more detailed examination of Cr2O3/SBA-1, the relationship between the physicochemical properties of the catalyst and the observed activity were explored.85
Michorczyk et al. found a strong positive correlation between the initial propene yield and the reducibility of the catalyst, specifically the H2 consumption.
In situ UV-vis measurements revealed that Cr6+ is rapidly reduced to Cr3+ or Cr2+ in the presence of C3H8 under reaction conditions.
The reaction proceeds through a Mars-Van Krevelen mechanism, via the Cr2+/3+ redox couple.
Rapid deactivation, typical of Cr2O3 catalysts, was observed, although the majority of the initial activity could be recovered after regeneration in air.
The remainder was ascribed to pore collapse and/or the formation of inactive Cr sites, although the loss of surface Cr sites through agglomeration was not considered.
Despite early reports that activated carbon (AC) was not a suitable support for Cr2O3, subsequent studies have shown that above 550 C, the activity of Cr2O3/AC in the presence of CO2 was higher than in the DDH reaction.260
The enhancement in propane conversion due to the presence of CO2 increased at higher temperatures (i.e., above 600 C), although this was chiefly due to propane dry reforming proceeding, generating CO and H2 rather than propene.
While this Cr2O3/AC exhibited the highest STY of propene out of all CrOx-based catalysts (21 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1, Table 11, entry 9), it rapidly deactivated on-stream and due to the support being carbonaceous, cannot be regenerated using air.
This severely limits the utility of this catalyst.
Zeolites have also been considered as catalyst supports for Cr2O3.
Zhang et al. prepared CrOx/Na-ZSM-5 via incipient wetness.261
Although the initial conversion and selectivity was high (48% and 86%, respectively) (Table 11, entry 5), the catalysts deactivated rapidly and the reaction conditions were such that the STY was only 2.5 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 550 C with a CO2:C3H8 ratio of 2.
Zhu et al. investigated a range of MFI supports, including silicalite-1 and H[B]MFI.262
CrOx/H[B]MFI was found to be the most active catalyst, giving a STY of 4.7 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1 at 600 C with a CO2:C3H8 of 1 (Table 11, entry 15).
Although the as-prepared catalyst exhibited typically poor stability for Cr catalysts, steam treating the catalyst resulted in a marked improvement.
After 60 h on-stream, the as-prepared catalyst retained only 25% of its initial conversion, while the steam treated catalyst retained ca. 74%.
The authors ascribed the effect to stabilised Cr3+ formed in the steam treatment.
Presumably the reduction of Cr6+ during the reaction results in an inactive or less active Cr3+ species.
It should also be noted that the as-prepared catalyst was initially almost twice as active as the steam treated catalyst, which leaves the possibility that at higher conversions, increased coke formation may have occurred which would exaggerate the deactivation compared to the steam treated catalyst.
Ideally such stability comparisons would be made at isoconversion, however this discovery is one of only a few that shows improved stability on-stream.
Recently, Michorczyk et al. prepared a Cr-β-zeolite and investigated the effect of dealumination, which clearly elucidated the effect of acidity on the catalytic performance.263
It was reported that the dealuminated catalyst, Cr-SiBeta, exhibited significantly higher propene yields (up to 27%), compared to the Al-containing catalyst, Cr-AlBeta (2%).
The presence of acid sites in the Cr-AlBeta catalyst resulted in cracking pathways that led to increased production of methane and ethene.
Moreover, the CrAlbeta catalyst performed less well in the presence of CO2 than in the DDH reaction.
This was explained by the strong adsorption of CO2 on the catalyst, similar to the inhibition observed over Cr2O3/Al2O3 catalysts.
The stability of the dealuminated catalyst was also improved compared with CrAlbeta, but significant loss in activity was observed over the 4 h reaction.
In considering the redox properties of the catalysts in this work, and their previous investigations, the authors also identified a strong correlation between the H2 consumption from H2-TPR studies and the reported propene yield, as shown in Fig. 10.
While the majority of investigations on ODH-CO2 Cr2O3 catalysts have focused on support modifications, the addition of a promotor has also been shown to be beneficial.
Yun et al. demonstrated that the addition of 0.5 wt% Ni to a 10 wt% CrOx/SBA-15 catalyst increased the propane and CO2 conversion, as well as the on-stream stability.264
After 1 h on-stream, the Ni-promoted catalyst was 50% more active and the conversion and selectivity was almost maintained over 12 h on-stream.
In contrast, the less active unpromoted catalyst retained only half of the initial activity over the same time period.
Using three-stage H2-TPR experiments (where the catalyst is reduced twice under H2 and then re-oxidised in CO2 before the final H2-TPR program), the authors showed that the addition of Ni facilitated the re-oxidation of Cr during the reaction.
This is consistent with previously reported mechanisms of deactivation over Cr-based catalysts, although coking is also often reported to cause deactivation.
Interestingly, the promoted catalyst was marginally more prone to coking.
This strongly suggests that overreduction of active Cr sites is the key deactivation mechanism over these catalysts.
There is a lot of potential to develop promoted Cr catalysts that could enhance the redox activity of the catalyst; precious metals including Pd and Pt are often supported on reducible supports for this purpose.265
Crucially, it was found that above 0.5 wt% Ni, propane reforming was prevalent, which underlines the importance of appropriate loadings of promotors.
O'Brien et al. investigated the effect of a Ru promoter to a 10 wt% CrOx/SiO2 catalyst.
Consistent with Yun et al. it was shown that the propene formation rate was increased.
A 1 wt% Ru loading was optimal and doubled the activity.
Interestingly, this is approximately the same molar ratio reported as the optimum by Yun et al. for Ni-promoted CrOx/SBA-15 (Table 11, entry 14).
Another similarity was the propensity of reforming to dominate at high loadings (>1 wt%).
The enhanced stability seen in Ni-promoted Cr catalysts was not observed in this work and the activity could not be fully recovered after regeneration.
Consequently, aggregation of Cr species was suggested as an additional deactivation mechanism in addition to coke formation and overreduction of Cr.
Rather than aid Cr re-oxidation in a one-step oxidative dehydrogenation, the authors concluded that the Ru promotes the RWGS reaction, which removes H2 and increases the equilibrium conversion of propane.
However, the results of three-stage H2-TPR reactions indicated that Cr can be more easily oxidised in the presence of Ru, which suggests that Ru can participate in a similar role as Ni-promoted Cr catalysts.
Overall supported chromium oxide catalysts represent one of the most active classes of ODH-CO2 catalysts, with STY values in the range of 222 molC3H6 kgcat1 h1.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The first study of Cr2O3-based catalysts for ODH-CO2 was reported by Takahara et al. in 1996 using Cr2O3 supported on SiO2, activated carbon (AC) or Al2O3.
The 5 wt% Cr2O3/SiO2 catalyst deactivated rapidly, retaining just 66% of its original activity after 4 h on-stream.
The stability was noted to the same with or without CO2 in the reactant feed.
Not only did this study establish Cr2O3 as an active ODH-CO2 catalyst, it also captured one of the recurring themes in catalyst design for ODH-CO2: some catalysts are inhibited by the addition of CO2 while others perform much better.
The correct balance of acidic and basic sites is a key consideration in catalyst design.
Equally, the ratio of carbon dioxide to propane is important to take in account, as it has kinetic and thermodynamic implications.
Thermodynamically, higher CO2:C3H8 ratios limit coke forming side-reactions.
The addition of CO2 in the dehydrogenation reaction has multiple effects: As discussed in Section 2, it facilitates the RWGS reaction which removes H2 from the system and shifts the thermodynamic equilibrium limit to favour propene production.
Additionally, CO2 can dissociate on the surface of a catalyst and provide O species to dehydrogenate propane directly.
Finally, it can react with coke via the reverse-Boudouard reaction to produce CO, which can potentially extend the lifetime of the catalyst.
The role of the support is simply to maximise the active Cr6+ surface area, rather than add any chemical functionality, hence this is the reason why chemically-unreactive supports such as SiO2 and activated carbon yield the most active CrOX catalysts.
The most significant barrier to commercial application is the poor on-stream stability exhibited by all chromium-based catalysts.
While incremental improvements in the activity of Cr catalysts have been reported since their initial discovery, significant advances in catalyst stability have been relatively few.
The addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial.
Although the addition of Al2O3 to ODH-CO2 catalysts is typically not beneficial, Chen et al. investigated spinel-type Ga2O3Al2O3 mixed oxides and showed that they can function as stable catalysts.
The origin of stability was linked to the low rate of coking associated with the spinel catalyst.
Using NH3-TPD analysis, the authors concluded that weak Lewis acid sites were conducive to high activity.
These acidbase properties most likely contribute to the enhanced stability as well; it is known that stronger acid sites promote oligomerisation pathways that produce coke.
The increased performance of Ga2O3/ZSM-48 was attributed to the abundance of weak and medium strength acid sites.
The low activity of Ga2O3/MgO and Ga2O3/SiO2 was ascribed to the absence of medium and strong acid sites.
In the Ga2O3/TiO2 catalyst, a significant proportion of the Ga (45%) was reduced.
This catalyst exhibited the highest propane conversion, but with a propene selectivity of 73% it did not result in the highest propene yield.
The origin of this induction period was found to be reduction of In2O3 to In0 nanoclusters, which suggests the active structure is more of a supported nanoparticle type catalyst than a mixed-metal oxide.
The basicity of the In/ZrO2 system was suggested to promote the RWGS reaction, which in turn boosted the ODH-CO2 activity.
It was found that 10 mol% Fe in CeO2 exhibited the highest propene yield.
The major side-reactions observed were dry reforming and cracking.
They showed that reforming pathways were more prevalent at higher CO2:C3H8 ratios, such as 2.5:1 and 5:1.
Despite the low selectivity, the FeCeO2 catalysts exhibited a comparable STY to supported In2O3 and some Ga2O3 catalysts.
The number of studies on supported nanoparticle catalysts for ODH-CO2 are relatively few and those available indicate that this field of research has great potential.
The major challenge is in understanding and inhibiting side-reactions such as reforming, which are known to proceed over this class of catalyst, unlike in Cr- and Ga-based catalysts.
Careful consideration of the nanostructure and composition has shown that the selectivity can be readily tuned to favour different pathways, and further investigation in this area may well be able to harness the high activity of supported nanoparticles as well as favour dehydrogenation pathways.
Despite dozens of reports over several decades on Cr- and Ga- based catalysts, the improvements in catalyst performance have been incremental.
The knowledge gained from these studies on the importance of reducibility and the balance of acid and base sites should be applied to supported NP catalysts, which are a promising and somewhat neglected category of ODH-CO2 catalyst.
The specific requirements of catalyst design for each sub-reaction are discussed and we identify that, regardless of the method of dehydrogenation, the balance of acid and base sites on the catalyst surface is of paramount importance.
The development of an active, selective and stable catalyst is essential for dehydrogenation to be considered as a viable process in the near- and long-term future.
In the case of SC and coal-based MTO, this is unavoidable due to the nature of the feedstock. However, natural gas and propane can be produced from biomass.
The increased interest in direct propane dehydrogenation has been enhanced by the fall in propane price, which is the direct result of the discovery of vast shale gas reserves in North America.
The production of renewable green propane (also called bio-propane and bioLPG) is an emerging sector which is already being operated on a large scale.
With increasing pressure to source chemical feedstocks sustainably, we can expect that new interest will focus on renewable and green routes to the key platform chemicals currently required by modern society, and that green propane will play an important role in this.
The majority (86%) of filed patents are for DDH catalysts, followed by ODH-O2 (12%) and finally ODH-CO2 (2.4%).
The exact composition of the HGM is likely to include copper oxide and additional promotors such as MnO2, supported on α-Al2O3.
The importance of Al speciation in improving catalyst performance and stability was investigated by Shi et al.
The modification of Al2O3 with metal oxides, such as TiO2 has been undertaken with some promising results.
The role of Cu in the catalyst was to dilute the Pt species and promote desorption of propene, thereby enhancing selectivity.
The role of the subsurface was to facilitate the activation of propane on the surface.
The irreversible initial deactivation in the consecutive DDH cycles was attributed to either: (i) structural changes of active species (such as agglomeration), or (ii) collapse of pore structure.
The positive effect was attributed to the promoters ability to block the sites responsible for coke formation and negligible contribution to undesirable secondary reactions by the additional acid sites generated by the P-based modifier.
The authors attributed this enhanced performance to a high dispersion of Cr species, moderate acidity and strong metalsupport interactions in the CrOx/H-ZSM-5(260) catalyst.
The authors attributed high Ga/Al ratios (>0.5) with the formation of additional GaxOy clusters which negatively affected the dehydrogenation rate and thus catalytic performance.
The activity is dependent on the bond strength of the VOsupport bond. Therefore, it is expected that catalyst performance is affected when different supports, such as SiO2, Al2O3 and ZrO2 are utilised.

[1] "Although the equilibrium conversion of alkanes increases with temperature, alkene selectivity decreases with increasing temperature and chain length due to an increased tendency toward dehydrocyclization/aromatisation, thermal cracking and coke formation."
          [2] "The extent of PtSn interactions depends on the impregnation sequence of Pt and Sn precursors on the support material."
          [3] "The framework of microporous zeolites exerts dispersive forces on the reactant's molecules that depend on the shape, channel and cavity of the framework."
          [4] "In addition, the nature and the density of the active sites influence the framework dispersion forces."
          [5] "Recent reports have shown that the strong electrostatic field between protons or exchanged metal ions and basic oxygen species can enhance and/or induce polarization of bonds in hydrocarbon adsorbates."
          [6] "This agrees with Hashiguchi et al. [26] , who found enhanced activation of the CH bond on a homogeneous catalyst."
          [7] "Wender et al. [27] showed that 3040% of heat adsorption in n-alkanes on Na-zeolite is due to polarization of the adsorbates."
          [8] "Subbotina et al. [28] also demonstrated that the CH bond of ethane is more strongly polarized on Mg2 + and Ca2 + forms of Y zeolite than on Na+ forms."
          [9] "Based on charge density considerations, Mg2 + cations are expected to exhibit a stronger polarizing effect than Ca2 + cations."
          [10] "Subbotina et al. explain that because of the smaller ionic radius of Mg2 +, it is more strongly shielded by the surrounding oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice than a Ca2 + ion, thereby reducing the polarizing effect of Mg2 + on the hydrocarbon adsorbate."
          [11] "Sievers et al. [29] ,[30] also report that the La3 + form of X zeolite induces strong polarization of adsorbed alkane molecules; partial positive charges were induced on secondary and tertiary carbon atoms of alkane molecules."
          [12] "The authors suggest that the polarization may be viewed as an intermediate condition to hydride abstraction (which is an important elementary step in CH activation)."
          [13] "They add that CH bond polarization was enhanced by physisorbed water molecules that coordinate with La3 + cations."
          [14] "The enhanced polarization of CH bonds by the presence of water molecules on La3 +X zeolite may have a beneficial effect in oxidative dehydrogenation where water is a by-product."
          [15] "Alkane polarization studies on Na+, Mg2 +, Ca2 +, and La3 + exchanged X-zeolites indicate that the polarizing effect increases with increasing charge magnitude and ionic radius."
          [16] "Note that these alkane polarizing cations occupy the same position on the zeolites as the well-known CH activation cations/metals, and thus the CH polarizing effect has a complementary effect on CH activation."
          [17] "This may add to the number of relevant variables and increase the challenge of optimizing the ratio of activation/polarizing cations among exchangeable sites (Si/Al ratio), as well as the sequence for incorporating the cations or metals during catalyst preparation."
          [18] "Further, it is important to note that the choice of cations should be such that they exhibit no catalytic (oligomerization, isomerization, aromatisation or oxidation) effects on the target alkene products at the reaction condition."
          [19] "Furthermore, it may be beneficial to create a CH polarization effect on the zeolite framework."
          [20] "This can be achieved by appropriate chance of framework atoms."
          [21] "Since active sites are usually created on the zeolite frameworks."
          [22] "The active sites (alkoxide intermediate) of the bimolecular pathway are formed in situ ( Scheme 1 )."
          [23] "The alkoxide intermediate is made up of an alkyl carbenium ion ionically held to the zeolite framework oxygen ion."
          [24] "The active sites of the unimolecular pathway are the charge balancing protons of the zeolite framework."
          [25] "A proton and a carbenium ion are an electrophilic or Lewis acid species (a proton can also be considered as a special case of Lewis acidity)."
          [26] "The two pathways essentially involve electrophilic CH activation."
          [27] "The electrophiles (proton and carbenium ion) activate CH at high temperatures (500 C), giving low conversion rates of light alkanes and poor selectivity to corresponding alkenes."
          [28] "The elementary steps of CH activation on OGa+ ( Scheme 2 ) reveal that a redox cycle at the metal center is required for catalytic CH activation via the oxidative addition mechanism."
          [29] "A redox cycle is not apparent in the elementary step presented for CH activation on OZn2+O."
          [30] "Hence, a redox cycle is not a requisite for CH activation via the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism."
          [31] "However, under alkane dehydrogenation reaction conditions, the OZn2+O sites can undergo a reversible Zn2 +/Zn redox process ( Scheme 3 )."
          [32] "This redox process increases the availability of undesired protonic site intermediates."
          [33] "Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5 prepared by conventional ion-exchange methods contain a significant percentage of unexchanged proton sites leading to lower alkene selectivity of the catalyst."
          [34] "Iglesia and Biscardi [59] titrate the proton sites with NaOH."
          [35] "The un-titrated and the titrated catalysts are denoted as Zn/H-ZSMS-5 and Zn/Na-ZSMS-5, respectively."
          [36] "Zn/Na-ZSM-5 has four times the propane conversion rate and a higher propene selectivity than Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [37] "The propene formation rate obtained with Zn/Na-ZSM-5 was ten times that of Zn/H-ZSMS-5."
          [38] "The zinc species at the cation exchange site of the zeolite was identified as OZn+OH."
          [39] "The higher propene selectivity obtained on Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is presumably from the lower density and availability of proton sites on Zn/Na-ZSM-5."
          [40] "The improved propane conversion rate of Zn/Na-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H-ZSM-5 is attributable to the higher efficiency of OZn+OH sites in catalyzing desorption of H-adatoms than OZn2+O sites."
          [41] "Another strategy to enhance alkene selectivity is by controlling the strength of the proton sites."
          [42] "The acidity of the sites depends on the nature of the trivalent cation of the zeolite framework."
          [43] "Proton sites in borosilicate zeolites are weaker than those of aluminosilicate [60] ,[61] ,[62] ,[63] ,[64] , and thus higher alkene selectivity is expected for alkane dehydrogenation over Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 compared to Zn/H[Al]-ZSM-5."
          [44] "However, Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 shows no activity for propane dehydrogenation."
          [45] "The desired weaker acidity of the proton sites of Zn/H[B]-ZSM-5 requires weaker basicity of the oxygen atoms in the zeolite framework."
          [46] "This reduced basicity of the oxygen atoms is not sufficiently polarizing to complement the exchanged Zn2 + in CH bond cleavage."
          [47] "In the next section, we examine use of zeolite support to design a Pt-based alkane dehydrogenation catalyst."
          [48] "Elimination of the proton sites of zeolites is critical for obtaining a high alkene selectivity and stability in dehydrogenation catalysts."
          [49] "Pt is the most versatile noble metal catalyst for alkane reactions [65] ."
          [50] "Although Pt is expensive, the choice of Pt is often justified by its higher activity, stability and selectivity for these reactions compared to less expensive alternative transition metals."
          [51] "However, rapid catalyst deactivation due to coke formation remains a challenge even when using a Pt-based catalyst for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [52] "Waku et al. [66] exploited the unique property of zeolite as a support for achieving high metal dispersion through cation exchange sites to create a Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 catalyst with outstanding stability for dehydrogenation of light alkanes."
          [53] "They found that the catalyst deactivation rate of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was lower than for any other Pt-based catalysts in refractory oxide support."
          [54] "The unprecedented performance of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 was attributed to its high Pt dispersion (cluster size < 1 mm) on zeolite through ion-exchange."
          [55] "There is a tendency to generate some Brnsted protons on the zeolite during the exchange process, but the choice of Fe3 + as an isomorphous cation in place of Al3 + led to weaker Brnsted sites in [Fe]-ZSM compared to [Al]-ZSM."
          [56] "The weaker acidity minimizes the tendency of side reactions (cracking of oligomerization, aromatisation, and coke), which translates into higher alkene selectivity and catalyst stability."
          [57] "In another report, Xuebing and Iglesia [67] demonstrated the ability of Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5 to dehydrogenate alkanes longer than C4; n-pentane and n-heptane were selectively converted to n-pentene and n-heptene, respectively."
          [58] "Alkene selectivity was also improved when the residual proton generated during Pt exchange or Na-[Fe]-ZSM was titrated with Cs [67] ."
          [59] "Although Pt with conventional refractory oxides (Al2O3, SiO2, ZrO2, etc.) used for dehydrogenation of alkanes has similar conversion rates to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5, deactivation rates are also rapid due to coke formation."
          [60] "The presence of acid (Bronsted and Lewis) sites on the supports promotes readsorption, oligomerization and aromatisation of alkenes."
          [61] "Promotion of Pt with metals, such as Sn, Ga, Zn, Re, etc., improves catalyst stability, but also leads to faster deactivation rates than Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [62] "However, recent reports by Bell et al. [68] ,[69] ,[70] show that the use of calcined hydrotalcite (Al/Mg  0.1) supported on bimetallic PtGa or PtSn gave very high alkene selectivity and stability, comparable to Pt/Na[Fe]-ZSM-5."
          [63] "At this stage, we can conclude that differences in the performance of Zn and Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 obtained by Kanansky et al. [53] are attributable to their respective CH activation mechanisms."
          [64] "In addition, the role of exchanged Zn and Ga as promoters of RD becomes evident from the mechanisms ( Scheme 2 )."
          [65] "The RD mechanism on Ga exchanged H-ZSM-5 is by reductive elimination of a hydrogen molecule from O[Ga(H)2]+ intermediate."
          [66] "Decomposition of ZnR and a protonic site, or neutralization of the proton sites by ZnH, leads to desorption of the hydrogen molecule on the Zn-exchanged H-ZSM-5."
          [67] "By extrapolation, the mechanisms of CH activation on exchanged Zn and Ga H-ZSM-5 can described the mechanism of alkane dehydrogenation on Cr-based and Pt-based catalysts respectively."
          [68] "The electronic promotion effect of Sn is in line with the oxidative addition CH activation mechanism."
          [69] "However, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism could also explain the proposed CH activation on Cr-based catalysts."
          [70] "Now, the nature and the role of surface oxygen species become more evident."
          [71] "The role of potassium in commercial Cr and Pt-based dehydrogenation catalysts is to minimize the undesired influence of protonic sites on alkene selectivity."
          [72] "The highlights in this section are presented in Table 2 ."
          [73] "The table reveals the insights achieved on the reaction mechanism, alkene selectivity and catalyst stability for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."
          [74] "Nonetheless, the level of catalyst activity is still far from acceptable, even at high temperature."
          [75] "A recent report by Rothenberg et al. [71] provides a lead in this respect."
          [76] "Their report indicates that a porous copperaluminum framework material (stabilized by metal oxide) has better performance (activity/selectivity/stability) for propane dehydrogenation than a PtSn/Al2O3."
          [77] "Of particular interest, is the suggestion that achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C may be possible."
          [78] "Few details are known about the structure of the porous copperaluminum framework material."
          [79] "However, copper is implicated as providing the active sites for the catalysis."
          [80] "Also, that the material activated in oxygen gave higher propane conversion rates than those activated in inert gas atmosphere underscores the role of the surface oxide (oxygen species) in the catalysis."
          [81] "Thus, the Lewis base-assisted deprotonation mechanism may be invoked here, and the redox property of the metal center is likely to play a role in achieving propane dehydrogenation at 350 C."
          [82] "This should constitute the future research direction for non-oxidative dehydrogenation of lower alkanes."

[3] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [4] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [5] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [6] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [7] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [8] "The pore size is also considered to have a slight effect on the catalytic activity, i.e., lower activation barriers for reactions in zeolites with larger pore size."
          [9] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [10] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [11] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [12] "Although the general trend of catalytic activity is not as easy to be addressed for these as for metal systems, the case studies still shed light on dehydrogenation mechanisms in these systems, and more insights emerge which are normally difficult to be explored at molecular level even by the most advanced experimental equipment."
          [13] "The robustness against coking can be increased with additional promoters, such as late transition metals, main-group metals including Sn and Ga, alkali-metal oxides and rare-earth metal oxides."
          [14] "The existence of Au atoms shifts down the d band of alloys, which weakens the interaction between σ* of CH bond and d states of surface metal atoms. Thus, the transition state gains less stabilization from surface atoms, and finally results in an increase of the dissociation barrier height."
          [15] "The lower reactivity (i.e. higher dehydrogenation barrier) on PtSn alloy is due to the deeper d-band center compared to pure Pt."
          [16] "The PtCu catalyst inhibits the adsorption of formed propylene, and thus suppresses the secondary cracking reactions from propylene towards lighter hydrocarbons. Thus, this reduced interaction between the product and the catalysts enhances the anti-coking ability of the catalyst."
          [17] "The stability of metal oxides or hydride clusters is also influenced by the structure of the zeolite framework."
          [18] "The weak binding of the intermediate on such sites favors the desorption of H2. Considering these two opposite effects, calculations suggested that the optimal AlAl distance to be 453 pm corresponding to a minimum overall barrier, and a simple structure-to-activity correlation based on the Sabatier principle was proposed."
          [19] "The ultimate goal for theoretical studies is to identify optimal catalysts for particular chemical processes."
          [20] "The continuing improvements of computer hardware, the development of new functionals, as well as the increasing sophistication of computational electronic structure software have insured the ability of a computational study to access more complicated catalytic systems beyond simple transition-metal surfaces."
          [21] "The lattice mismatch between the particle and support results in a shift of relative positions between sites on particle and surface, which results in different environments of given sites, leading to a large number of possibilities to be considered in a single study."
          [22] "The complexity of the systems mentioned above seems to beyond the ability to completely scan the potential energy surfaces to a large extent with DFT calculations, which limits most of the current studies which focus to understand one aspect of the catalyst instead of the complete picture of dehydrogenation."

[1] "PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibited outstanding catalytic stability in PDH at 600C, and almost no deactivation was observed for up to 1month."
          [2] "The geometric and electronic effects are known to be pivotal to most catalytic systems, including the PDH one."
          [3] "Pb is deposited on the three-fold Pt3 sites of the PtGa nanoparticles to block them, whereas Ca, which affords an electron-enriched single-atom-like Pt1 site, is placed around the nanoparticles."
          [4] "Thus, PtGaCaPb/SiO2 exhibits an outstandingly high catalytic stability, even at 600C (kd=0.00033h1, τ=3067h), and almost no deactivation of the catalyst was observed for up to 1month for the first time."
          [5] "The ensemble effect can also be maximized by completely isolating the Pt atoms by the second metals, thus favoring the first and second CH scissions, whereas the subsequent CH scission would be successfully inhibited."
          [6] "Hence, tuning the electronic properties of Pt can be another approach for increasing the lifetime of PDH catalysts."
          [7] "Therefore, the double modification of PtGa to synergize the geometric and electronic promotion effects can be a promising catalyst design concept to construct an ultra-stable catalytic system for PDH."
          [8] "The surface of the intermetallic PtGa nanoparticles on SiO2 was decorated with Pb for the geometric modification to block the Pt3 sites."
          [9] "Moreover, a certain alkali or alkaline earth cation, such as Ca2+,26-28 is deposited around the PtGa nanoparticles as an electron-donating agent."
          [10] "The resulting electron-enriched Pt1 site is expected to function as an ideal active site that can almost perfectly suppress side reactions in PDH."



Al2O3 is one of the most commonly used supports in heterogeneous catalysis due to its structural advantages and stability.
          The coordinately unsaturated Al3+ sites present on the (100) facets of commercial γ-Al2O3 can serve as anchor sites to anchor atomically dispersed Pt and Ru sites.
          The specific interaction between Ga2O3 and Al2O3 can allow the tetrahedral Ga3+ cations to highly disperse in the spinel-type γ-Ga2O3-Al2O3 solid solution, leading to an enhanced activity and stability in PDH reaction.
          The γ-Al2O3 nanosheet containing 27% penta-coordinated Al3+ sites has been proved that it could nicely disperse and stabilize bimetallic PtSn nanoclusters because of the strong interactions between metals and support.
          This PtSn/Al2O3 sheet catalyst displayed an excellent performance at an ultrahigh space velocity in a long-term PDH reaction.
          In addition to being an appropriate support, the hydroxyl groups-eliminated Al2O3 showed a high activity of coordinately unsaturated Al3+ as the surface active sites in non-oxidative dehydrogenation of isobutane to isobutylene.
          Furthermore, the diversity and complexity on the structure of Al2O3, for example the surface acidity at the low-coordinated Al sites, determined the different properties in the adsorption and the activation of propane as well as coke deposition in the PDH reaction.
          Herein, a one-step hydrothermal method is employed to synthesize sheet-shaped CoAl2O3HT catalysts for efficiently catalyzing the PDH reaction.
          The structural and catalytic stabilities as well as the CoAl2O3 interaction for these catalysts are benchmarked to an impregnated Co/Al2O3-IMP catalyst.
          We further illustrate the effect of C3H6 desorption behavior in the Co-catalyzed PDH reaction.

[1] "The acidity of Si-Beta, 0.1Pt/Si-Beta, 2Zn/Si-Beta and 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta samples were evaluated by means of NH3-TPD and the results are shown in Fig. 3 (c). Parent H-Beta demonstrates two NH3 desorption peaks, revealing the presence of both weak and strong acid sites, respectively (not shown here) [37] ,[38] ,[39] ,[40] ,[41] . After the complete dealumination of H-Beta, no desorption peaks could be observed for the resulting Si-Beta sample due to the absence of acid sites [42] . Subsequently, the introduction of a small amount of Pt species to the Si-Beta support results in the appearance of trace medium acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 523 K) and the introduction of Zn results in the appearance of higher amount of Lewis acid sites (NH3 desorption peak centered at 423 K). With the introduction of Pt into 2Zn/Si-Beta, an ammonia desorption peak centered at 443 K with much higher intensity could be observed on 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta. With electrons transfer from Zn species to Pt species, the Zn species become electron-deficient and Lewis acidic thereof. In other word, the observed Lewis acidity in 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta as compared to 2Zn/Si-Beta should indicate the strong interaction between Pt and Zn species on the Si-Beta support."
          [2] "The morphology of the zeolite support and the dispersion of Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta support were directly investigated by electron microscopy and the representative results are shown in Fig. 2 . Generally, 0.1Pt-2Zn/Si-Beta appears as small aggregates of below 100 nm. In the HR-TEM image, homogeneously dispersed dark dots of 1  2.5 nm could be observed. STEM mapping analyses reveal the presence of both highly-dispersed Zn species (<1 nm) and small aggregates (1  2.5 nm). Meanwhile, no aggregation of Pt species could be observed due to its high dispersion and low loading. Obviously, Pt and Zn species appear in the overlapped locations, hinting to the close contact between Pt and Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite support."
          [3] "The evolution the silanol groups after dealumination and metal incorporation procedures was monitored by infrared spectroscopy to disclosed the formation of Pt-Zn species on Si-Beta zeolite."
          [4] "The local electronic environment of Pt is of great significance for PDH process. In this study, the local electronic environment of Pt was investigated by FTIR spectra of CO adsorption, which is reliable for the discrimination of highly dispersed Pt centers and large metal bulks even at very low Pt loading."
          [5] "The XRD patterns of the parent H-Beta, Si-Beta, Zn/Si-Beta, and Pt-Zn/Si-Beta are shown in Fig. 1 (a). Typical diffraction lines characteristic for the BEA topology are observed for all samples, while a noticeable decline in the intensity could be observed after the introduction of Zn species."
          [6] "The surface areas of zeolite samples were determined by argon adsorption/desorption isotherms at 87 K collected on a Quantachrome iQ-MP gas adsorption analyzer. The Brunauer Emmett Teller (BET) method was used to calculate the total surface area and the t-plot method was employed to calculate the micropore properties."
          [7] "The detailed textural properties of Si-Beta, and M/Si-Beta samples are summarized in Table S1 . All samples exhibit similar high surface areas of 553  616 m2 g1 and large micropore volumes of 0.3510.413 cm3 g1, indicating the well preserved microporous structure of Beta zeolite after dealumination and metal incorporation."
          [8] "The introduction of Pt species via impregnation does not change the dispersion of Zn species on Si-Beta support."
          [9] "The close contact between Pt-Zn species and the electronic interaction thereof make Pt-Zn/Si-Beta robust PDH catalysts."

[1] "NaCl excess contributes to stability of propane dehydrogenation MFI-zeolite catalysts."
          [2] "NaCl promotes Pt dispersion, prevents sintering during calcination, and effectively suppresses zeolite acidity."
          [3] "Washing after the calcination of Pt-containing catalysts further increases the catalyst activity and stability due to the redispersion of water-soluble chlorinated Pt compounds."
          [4] "High external surface acid site concentrations, Na/Pt atomic ratios of 4070, calcination temperatures of 400500 C, washing with water, and the order of component introduction when the excess NaCl and the precursor of Pt are calcined jointly contribute to improved Pt dispersion and catalyst stability."

[1] "The stability of the Pt particles at the surface of supports can be greatly enhanced by the manipulation of metal-support interaction [9] ,[10] ."
          [2] "The Al2O3 with coordinatively unsaturated pentacoordinate Al3+ (Al3+ penta) sites can stabilize the atomically dispersed Pt specie via the formation of Al3+ penta-O-Pt bond, which results in anchoring Pt particles at the surface of Al2O3 support."
          [3] "The Pt particles can be tightly stabilized on the heteroatoms in the lattice of oxide substrate [11] ."
          [4] "Small Pt particles stabilized in the lattice-confined Sn (IV/II) produces a highly selective and stable Pt-Sn catalyst for propane dehydrogenation [12] ."
          [5] "Pt particles confined at the Sn single-site in zeolite framework show high catalytic performance in the propane dehydrogenation, and the enhanced performance of Pt/Sn-Beta catalysts is mainly attributed to the strong interaction between the Pt particles and the framework of Sn-zeolite [13] ."
          [6] "The PtSn bimetallic particles are confined in the mesopores, which allow them to become a stable catalyst in propane dehydrogenation at high temperature."
          [7] "The high efficiency of these PtSn/hierarchical ZSM-5 catalysts for propane dehydrogenation is mainly attributed to the confinement of PtSn particles in the mesopores of hierarchical ZSM-5 zeolite."

Although numerous metal-based and metal oxide-based catalysts show superior activity and selectivity and have been widely developed, it is still unclear and ambiguous as to which active site structures and dehydrogenation mechanisms are followed in the PDH process from a fundamental perspective.
          In this section, the active sites, dehydrogenation pathways and deactivation mechanisms on Pt-based and representative metal oxide-based catalysts would be clarified.
          The coordination saturated Pt atoms are more selective for propane dehydrogenation, while the coordinatively unsaturated Pt atoms will catalyze the side reactions, such as CC breaking and deep dehydrogenation, resulting in the formation of carbon deposits.
          The adsorption configuration and strength of propylene can be both greatly perturbed by surface structures, coke formation is inherently governed by the surface geometric and electronic structures, and thus the construction of specific reaction ensembles is important.
          Tuning the support's acidity and coke mobility can also inhibit the coke formation.
          The effective strategies for inhibiting coke are summarized as follows.
          Geometric separation: Previous research studies have shown that separating the active metal components could inhibit the structure-sensitive side reactions with improved propylene selectivity.
          Electron richness: A high electron density of Pt particles is beneficial to weaken Pt(CC) bonds, inhibit coke precursors, and suppress deep dehydrogenation and CC cleavage as well, thus promoting desorption of C3H6, leading to a favorable C3H6 selectivity.
          Poisoning acid sites: In addition to the coke on metal particles, the coke on acidic supports can also suppress the diffusion of reactive molecules.
          Cofeeding streams: In addition to the modulation of catalyst structures and the properties of supports, changes in reaction conditions by cofeeding streams, such as H2, and CO2, can also have a positive effect on coke elimination.
          Enhancing oxygen mobility: The oxidation of the adsorbed surface carbonaceous species can help eliminate the coke deposition over supported metals and thus is beneficial to the improvement of catalytic stability.
          Coke transfer: In addition to inhibiting the coke accumulation on a Pt surface, transferring coke precursors from Pt to supports can also prolong the catalyst life.
          Their textural properties such as specific surface area, acidbase properties, and thermal stability have been demonstrated to have significant influences on the catalytic performance of Pt-based catalysts.
          For example, to avert the occurrence of undesirable coke and alkane isomerization on supports, the support acidity should be carefully controlled.
          Additionally, to increase the dispersion of metal particles, supports with high surface area and uniform pore size distribution are preferred.
          Some alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, can help poison the strong acid sites and avoid the coke deposition on the Al2O3 surface.
          Additionally, doping Mg into Al2O3 forms a stable spinel phase.
          An-Hui Lu and coworkers indicated that Al2O3 nanosheets with abundant penta-coordinate Al atoms have a strong metalsupport interaction owing to their capacity for anchoring Pt atoms, which accounts for their high stability.
          Due to the weak interaction between Pt and SiO2, Pt-based bimetals with high alloying degrees such as PtM intermetallic alloys can be formed by direct H2 pretreatment on SiO2 supports.
          Comparatively, there exist strong interactions between CeO2 and metal particles, where Pt atoms can be trapped in the form of Pt ions.
          Additionally, upon using water vapor, the coke deposition could be eliminated accounting for the redox properties of CeO2 under propane dehydrogenation.
          The adjustable Si/Al ratios and relatively large surface areas can hinder the formation of large hydrocarbon molecules, thus preventing the so-called coke deposits and improving the catalytic stability.
          Besides, some mesoporous materials, such as SBA-1561 and MCM-41, are often used as the catalyst supports to disperse the active phase with more active sites and less coke deposition.
          Two-dimensional (2D) early transition metal carbides, i.e., MXenes, due to their well-defined structures and tunable compositions have attracted much attention.
          Additionally, carbon materials have been widely used for plenty of reactions because of their large surface area, chemical inertness and stability in acidic/basic media.
          Novel nanostructured carbon materials including carbon nanotubes and graphene as supports have been gradually developed.
          Obviously, each specific support has its own characteristic and may exhibit a distinctive effect on the catalytic property.
          It can not only change the selectivity by influencing the component, morphology and distribution of metal particles but also alter the reaction stability by increasing mechanical strength, anti-sintering and anti-coking resistance.

The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          Indeed, it has been observed that Cr5+ species that are not reduced in a hydrogen atmosphere can be reduced by alkanes.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          Harlin et al. noted that optimal activity was achieved with monolayer coverage of molybdenum oxide on an alumina support.
          The reduction of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate. Akin to Al2O3, Ga2O3 has different polymorphs of which β-Ga2O3 is not only the most stable, but also the most active Ga species in PDH according to some authors.
          β-Ga2O3 has a monoclinic structure, in which gallium atoms are equally distributed between tetrahedral and octahedral configurations. This crystal structure has a high concentration of weak Lewis acid sites (coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral ones on the surface of the material), which are deemed to be centers of dehydrogenation activity.
          The assignment of Lewis acid sites as the active species was substantiated by Chen et al., who, by relating the results of NH3-TPD measurements with activity data for different GaxAl10xO15 mixed oxides, showed that a high concentration of Lewis acid groups in the form of coordinatively unsaturated tetrahedral Ga3+ cations is a prerequisite for dehydrogenation activity.
          Xu et al. reported dehydrogenation activity on both Lewis and Brnsted acid sites on GaO3/H-ZSM-5. A zeolitic support displaying a low concentration of medium and strong acid sites and a relatively high concentration of weak acid sites was found to lead to the most active and stable catalyst.
          Michorczyk et al. concluded that acidic groups catalyze the reaction after observing that promotion with a base, such as potassium, resulted in a decrease in activity.
          The structure of the support is also important, as a mesoporous GaAl mixed oxide exhibited an increased resistance to catalyst coking.
          The function of K was to reduce coke formation by poisoning Brnsted acid sites.
          Pt is believed to act as a promoter for the GaOx. Indeed, albeit 1000 ppm Pt/Al2O3 was found to be virtually inactive, 1000 ppm of Pt in combination with 3 wt % Ga afforded conversions close to the equilibrium and an propylene selectivity <95%.
          The role of Pt is to assist hydrogen desorption, which facilitates the regeneration of the gallium hydride hydroxide species.
          The exact nature of the active sites in Ga-based dehydrogenation catalysts is still under debate.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          The chemistry of molybdenum oxide is comparable to that of vanadium oxide, as Mo can be present as MoOx monomers, polymers, or MoO3 crystallites, depending on the molybdenum loading, the type of support used, and catalyst preparation conditions.
          The reducibility of the catalyst with hydrogen prior to reaction increases conversion, although selectivity decreases due to the formation of acid sites.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts. On the other hand, acid sites are detrimental for catalyst performance, because they facilitate cracking and induce coke formation.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit all of the noble metals of group VIIIB are active in the nonoxidative hydrogenation of alkanes, Pt is the only noble metal utilized in commercial applications due to its superior activation of paraffinic CH bonds and low activity to CC cleavage.
          The addition of alkaline metals, such as Li, Na, and K, poisons these acid sites, suppressing the formation of coke on the support as shown in Figure 10.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Indeed, studies on the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane have revealed that catalytic activity based on ethane conversion and ethylene yields follows the order CrOx/γ-Al2O3 > CrOx/SiO2 > CrOx/MCM-41  CrOx/MgO  CrOx/Si-2.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          Different reasons for this beneficial effect of CO2 have been suggested, such as the removal of acid sites that catalyze unwanted side reactions, coke gasification, oxidation of overly reduced vanadium centers, and hydrogen removal by the reverse watergas shift reaction.
          Ogonowski et al. reported that the effect of CO2 depends strongly on the catalyst support. Relatively weak basic sites on carriers, such as those present on an activated carbon support, facilitate the reverse water gas shift reaction, which lifts the thermodynamic limitation of the reaction and increases alkane conversion.
          When these basic sites are too strong, as is the case on Al2O3 and ZnO2, CO2 irreversibly adsorbs and poisons these sites.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The addition of CO2 can have a beneficial effect on the catalyst by removing acid sites, facilitating coke gasification, and promoting hydrogen removal. The effect of CO2 depends on the catalyst support, with relatively weak basic sites on activated carbon support facilitating the reverse water gas shift reaction, while strong basic sites on Al2O3 and ZnO2 can be poisoned by CO2.
          Alumina is commonly used as a support for vanadium oxide catalysts, although Sokolov et al. concluded through testing a wide range of Si- and Al-based supports that using silica to dope the alumina support provides beneficial effects on catalyst stability and activity.
          Furthermore, as was shown by Harlin et al., the performance of supported vanadium catalysts can be improved through the addition of MgO, either as a promoter or as a component of a mixed oxide. According to these workers, the increase in dehydrogenation selectivity stems from the basic nature of MgO, resulting in reduced coke formation.
          Alumina is by far the most common support, and a variety of methods to produce chromiaalumina catalysts have been investigated.
          The nature of the support is important not only because it governs the mechanical properties of the catalyst, but also because the interaction of the carrier with the active phase can have a profound impact on catalyst activity and selectivity.
          Albeit selectivity has been found to be insensitive to chromium loading, it does change over time.
          The use of zirconia as an alternative support has also been investigated.
          The use of silica as the support in chromia-based dehydrogenation catalysts requires a relative high surface area to stabilize Cr6+ sites.
          CrMgAl and CrMg mixed oxides prepared using layered double hydroxide (LDH) precursors have been studied as catalysts for the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of ethane.
          Finally, the study of porous chromia-pillared α-zirconium phosphate materials has been particularly informative with regards to the influence that acidity has on catalytic behavior.
          The surface area-to-metal loading ratio determines which species will form. Indeed, Wu et al. reported that monomeric species are predominantly present below 1.2 V/nm2, polymeric vanadium species prevail between 1.2 and 4.4 V/nm2, and crystalline V2O5 species preponderate at even higher loadings.
          On the one hand, the presence of hydroxyl groups on the surface of the support is important to obtain a well-dispersed catalyst, as OH groups serve as anchoring sites for the vanadium precursors used to prepare these catalysts.
          On the contrary, large V2O5 crystallites are practically inactive in dehydrogenation.
          The reducibility of the vanadium species depends on their molecular structure, VOV and VO bonds being more easily reduced than VO-support bonds.
          Prior to reaction, the vanadium in these catalysts is generally present as V5+. However, the reduction of the catalyst by the hydrocarbon feed results in the formation of V4+ and V3+.
          Initially, deactivation is caused by the strong adsorption of reactants on the active sites and to a lesser extent to coke deposition.
          When the coke is removed through the calcination of the catalyst, the latter may deactivate further as vanadium oxide species sinter and form larger V2O5 crystallites or mixed oxides such as AlVO4, both of which are less active.
          V2O5 crystallites can revert to active polymeric vanadium species by treating the catalyst under an oxygen atmosphere at 600 C.
          The physicochemical properties of catalysts, including chemical qualities and morphological characteristics, significantly influence their performance in dehydrogenation reactions. For instance, the nature of the support material, such as alumina, zirconia, or silica, can affect the dispersion and stability of the active phase, thereby impacting the catalytic activity and selectivity. The interaction between the support and the active phase can also alter the electronic properties of the catalyst, which can further enhance its performance. Support modification strategies, such as doping with alkali metals or using mixed oxides, can optimize these properties for enhanced catalytic efficiency and selectivity. For example, doping with alkali metals can reduce surface acidity and increase the number of active sites, while using mixed oxides can improve thermal stability and coking resistance.

<!-- Quotes for question 1 from all the answer results -->

[1] "The physicochemical properties of catalysts have a significant impact on their catalytic behaviors. Chemical qualities, including acid strength and hydrothermal and pH stability, affect the selectivity toward the targeted alkene in dehydrogenation reactions, while the morphological and porous qualities can influence the diffusion efficiency."
          [2] "In this section, strategies focused on support modification for dehydrogenation catalysts are summarized (Table 3)."
          [3] "PDH is an acid-sensitive reaction, which signifies that proper acidity of the support is preferable for CH activation and propylene desorption, while unduly strong acidity, on the other hand, can generate a negative impact on the PDH process, possibly leading to CC cracking and deep dehydrogenation."
          [4] "As for zeolites, the Lewis acid sites are preferable for propane dehydrogenation, while the Brnsted acid sites are inductive factors in catalyzing cleavage reactions."
          [5] "For heterogeneous catalysts, one kinetic factor, the diffusion efficiency of the reactants and products, which is determined by the morphology, structure, size, and chemical properties of the supports, should be taken into consideration."
          [6] "Several strategies are proposed, focusing on shortening the diffusion path or diffusion resistance, including developing nanosized supports and synthesizing supports with particular morphologies and high external surfaces, e.g., needle-shaped, sheet-shaped, and mesh-shaped structures."

