<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide a detailed explanation of the Horiuti-Polanyi mechanism for catalytic dehydrogenation reactions or discuss the ongoing debate regarding which step is considered rate-limiting. However, it does analyze the reaction pathways for the dehydrogenation of ethane, propane, and butane over Pt nanoparticles represented by a tetrahedral Pt4 cluster. The objectives of this work were to establish which step is rate limiting and which one controls the selectivity for forming alkenes as opposed to causing further dehydrogenation of adsorbed alkenes to produce precursors responsible for catalyst deactivation due to coking. A comparison of Gibbs free energies shows that in all cases the rate-determining step is cleavage of a CH bond upon alkane adsorption. The selectivity to alkene formation versus precursors to coking is dictated by the relative magnitudes of the activation energies for alkene desorption and dehydrogenation of the adsorbed alkene. The presence of an adsorbed H atom on the cluster facilitates alkene desorption relative to dehydrogenation of the adsorbed alkene. Substitution of a Sn atom in the cluster to produce a Pt3Sn cluster leads to a downward shift of the potential energy surface for the reaction and causes an increase of the activity of the catalyst as suggested by recent experiments due to the lower net activation barrier for the rate limiting step. However, the introduction of Sn does not alter the relative activation barriers for gas-phase alkene formation versus loss of hydrogen from the adsorbed alkene, the process leading to the formation of coke precursors.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供Horiuti-Polanyi机制对催化脱氢反应的详细解释，也没有讨论关于哪个步骤被认为是限速步骤的持续争论。但是，它确实分析了乙烷、丙烷和丁烷在Pt纳米粒子上的脱氢反应途径，这些粒子由四面体Pt4簇表示。这项工作的目标是确定哪个步骤是限速的，以及哪个步骤控制了形成烯烃而不是导致吸附烯烃进一步脱氢产生导致催化剂因焦化而失活的前体的选择性。吉布斯自由能的比较显示，在所有情况下，限速步骤是烷烃吸附时的CH键断裂。烯烃形成与焦化前体的选择性由吸附烯烃的脱氢和脱氢的活化能的相对大小决定。在簇上吸附的H原子的存在促进了烯烃的脱附，相对于吸附烯烃的脱氢。用Sn原子代替簇中的一个Pt原子，产生一个Pt3Sn簇，导致反应的势能面的向下移动，并由于限速步骤的较低的净活化能，导致催化剂活性的增加，正如最近的实验所建议的那样。然而，Sn的引入并没有改变气相烯烃形成与从吸附烯烃中失去氢气，导致焦化前体形成的过程的相对活化能。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
