I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Part I. n-Butane dehydrogenation on unsupported carbon modied MoO3 (MoOxCy): effect of steam on the catalyst stability Marc J. Ledouxa,*, Frederic Meunier1,a, Baudouin Heinricha, Cuong Pham-Huua, M. Elina Harlinb, A. Outi I. Krauseb aLaboratoire de Chimie des Mate riaux Catalytiques, GMI/IPCMS UMR 46 du CNRS, ECPM, Universite Louis Pasteur,1 rue Blaise Pascal, 67008, Strasbourg Cedex, France bDepartment of Chemical Technology, Helsinki University of Technology, PO Box 6100, 02015, HUT, Finland Received 14 September 1998; received in revised form 7 December 1998; accepted 7 December 1998 Abstract MoO3 activated under butane and hydrogen mixture at 623 K was tested for the reactions of simultaneous isomerization and dehydrogenation of n-butane at 823 K. The active phase, a mixture of oxycarbide and oxide of molybdenum, was active but unstable under the reaction conditions, i.e. high temperatures and a reducing environment, leading to the formation of a supercial carbide layer and carbon-rich oxycarbide which were active but completely unselective, i.e. 100% selectivity towards methane. The introduction of steam into the feed largely stabilized the catalyst selectivity at around 80% by avoiding the extensive carburization. However, the introduction of steam or oxygen led to a lower dehydrogenation activity by favoring the active phase sintering. Along with sintering an additional deactivation due to coke formation was also observed. This latter deactivation process becomes more pronounced as the hydrogen to hydrocarbon molar ratio decreased. However, the deactivated catalyst can be totally recovered by applying a short oxidative regeneration process at the same reaction temperature. # 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Dehydrogenation; n-Butane; Molybdenum oxycarbide; Steam; Oxidative regeneration; Catalytic dehydrogenation
1. Introduction
The rapidly increasing demand for MTBE (methyl- tertiary-butyl ether), because of its ability to replace lead additives in gasoline, requires new sources of isobutene, the starting material which, by addition to methanol, produces MTBE [1]. There is no abundant natural source of this light olen and consequently it has to be synthesized from crude oil fractions or natural gas, the main sources of hydrocarbons. Two routes are currently in use: the exploitation of the FCC C3C4 cut (uidized-bed catalytic cracking) or of the steam cracker and the direct dehydrogenation of iso- butane. Unless signicant modications to the running conditions are made, the FCC C3C4 cut only contains about 10 wt% of isobutene, and the subsequent iso- merization of the n-butenes (about 2030 wt% of the C3C4) into isobutene on acidic catalysts is not very efcient. In fact the main route used to obtain iso- Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170 *Corresponding author. 1Present address: Centre for Environmental Research, Depart- ment of Chemical and Environment Science, University of Limerick, Plassey Technology Park, Ireland. 0926-860X/99/$  see front matter # 1999 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
PII: S0926-860X(98)00417-7
butene involves the direct dehydrogenation of isobu- tane either on supported chromium oxide, pure or with K (Caton) or chromium oxide ne powder (FBD-4 process) or on platinum supported on modied alu- mina containing different additives such as Sn, Zn, Mg, K, etc. (Oleex and STAR) [24].
All these processes need a preliminary step, the isomerization of the abundant n-butane into valuable isobutane. This isomerization reaction is well con- trolled industrially speaking but entails specic costs.
The second step, the dehydrogenation itself, on Cr oxide is a complex process because of the short activity time which requires cyclic regeneration and thus investment in parallel reactors or continuous regeneration in a uidized bed system. A large number of research articles have been devoted to the nature and characteristics of chromium oxide based catalysts on different supports and their stability [511]. The Caton process provides a very high selectivity (>95%) at the thermodynamic limit of conversion.
Finally, the environmental impact of possible Cr oxide(VI) spills must be considered. The process based on Pt, because of the high investment bound to this technology, can only be applied economically in very big units using cheap isobutane in large volumes in countries where this gas is abundant. Some other specic costs are attached to this Pt based process including the price of the catalyst itself con- taining a noble metal, the continuous regeneration system (Oleex) (also present in the FBD-4 process),the multiple reactor system (STAR) and also the necessity to extract by purication all the oxygen molecules (MeOH, MTBE, DME, water, etc.) from the recycled gas, because of the extreme sensitivity of the catalyst to oxygen traces. Typical results on these Pt based catalysts are conversions of isobutane in the range of 3545%, with an isobutene selectivity of about 8090%, the remaining molecules being mainly n-butenes, n-butane, butadiene and cracked products (methane, propane and propene for the most part). In addition, it must be mentioned that the dehydrogena- tion reaction is a very endothermic process (see Sec- tion 2 below) and for this reason, elevated process temperatures are needed in order to reach acceptable conversion levels per pass without disastrous cracking products being formed via side-reactions.
It would be of great importance to develop a catalyst and an associated process which would exhibit the selectivity of Cr oxide, the stability of Pt-based cat- alysts, the level of activity of the two catalysts and avoid the three main drawbacks raised above: cost,environmental requirements, and oxygen sensitivity.
One way to reduce the cost is to integrate the different steps of the full process (i.e. transforming n-butane into butene and/or isobutene, using all the reaction products directly, isobutene for MTBE, n-bute- nesisobutane for alkylation, propene and ethylene for polymers, and recycle the unreacted butane). To tackle the environmental requirements, the oxygen sensitivity and to be able to have isomerization and dehydrogenation reactions simultaneously,other materials than Cr and Pt should be investigated.
Recently our group has discovered and developed a new catalytic material, Mo oxycarbide formed at low temperature (623 K) which contains a low amount of carbon and which is a highly selective hydrocarbon isomerization catalyst, cheap and stable both in its bulk form or supported on SiC [12,13]. The objective of this article is to present the catalytic activity and the physical characterization of this new material when applied to n-butane dehydrogenation [14,15]. The role of steam for maintaining the catalyst stability was also investigated. Future articles will be devoted to more applied research dealing with specic requirements of the integrated process and additional improvement of the catalyst and its microstructure characterization.
2. Thermodynamics
Conventional calculations using literature data [16] for standard entropy, enthalpy and free energy of formation (S0, H0 and G0) were carried out to obtain the different diagrams of equilibrium between the reactants (n-butane and hydrogen) and the pro- ducts (branched and/or dehydrogenated C4's). To simplify the calculation, cracked products were not taken into account.H0 for n-butane isomerization into isobutane is slightly exothermic, 8.6 kJ/mol, but the entropy of branched hydrocarbons is higher than for their linear equivalents. Between 627 and 827 K, the proportion of n-butane to isobutane only varied marginally, from 6139% to 6832%. The variation of temperature should thus hardly affect the isomerization part of the process. 158
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
On the other hand, dehydrogenation is a very endothermic reaction, for instance H0 for the dehy- drogenation of n-butane into 1-butene equals 126 kJ/ mol [17]. By solving a system of seven equations and taking into account only seven molecules (isobutane,n-butane, isobutene and three n-butenes, thus ignoring butadiene and cracked molecules), it was possible to calculate the relative proportions of these molecules as a function of the temperature. The result of this calculation is reported in Fig. 1.
In this calculation the initial composition in terms of H2/n-butane ratios was set at 1 or 1/1. The same calculation made for a 9/1 ratio (excess of hydrogen) did not signicantly change the nal results.
The change in composition in terms of linear and branched molecules was hardly affected by the varia- tion in temperature, the proportion of total branched molecules dropped from 56% to 38% between 473 and 973 K; whilst the proportion of olens was dramati- cally modied when the temperature was increased.
Below 673 K almost no olens could be formed and at 973 K their proportion in the mixture reached more than 80%.At 823 K (the temperature which was chosen to test the catalysts) and for a H2/n-butane ratio of 9/1, the thermodynamic limit for the conversion of n-butane was 51.7% and the thermodynamic proportions of products were: 50.3% of isobutane, 21.9% of isobu- tene, 7.3% of but-1-ene, 12.0% of trans but-2-ene and
8.2% of cis but-2-ene. These results did not take into
account the formation of butadiene and of cracked molecules.
Finally as the number of molecules increases during the reaction, the Le Chatelier Principle'' dictates that the conversion should decrease when the initial pres- sure increases. A short calculation showed that at 823 K for a n-butane pressure of 1 bar, the equilibrium conversion was limited to 23.3% while at 0.1 bar, it increased to 56.0%.
3. Experimental
3.1. Dehydrogenation test
According to the thermodynamics described in Section 2, the micropilot used to test the catalysts had to be able to work at a total pressure close to normal (1 bar) and the reactor part had to be able to resist high temperatures (up to 900 K). In addition the design of this reactor and of the surrounding heating system had to be able to provide as large an amount of heat as possible, which in consequence meant that the amount of catalyst had to be limited so that the reaction was not articially slowed down by a heat transfer problem. A diagram of this micropilot is presented in Fig. 2.
Three gas cylinders (Air Liquide), respectively,provided U-grade hydrogen, 5N helium and n-butane
99.95% containing as main impurities trans 2-butene
(390 ppm),isobutane (250 ppm) and propane (230 ppm). The gas ows were regulated by three Tylan FC260 mass ow controllers (MFC). The con- nections between the cylinders and the double thermal conductivity detector via the MFCs were made of stainless steel tubes; further on the steel tubes were replaced by glass tubes through the saturator and after the reactor, the reactor itself being made of silica. The saturator was used to introduce additives, i.e. steam or oxygen, to the gas ow at constant pressure (checked by the double TCD). In order to prevent adsorption and/or condensation of the feed components and reaction products the whole line was heated at 1108C using heating tape. The U-shaped reactor was heated by an oven with a small temperature gradient (<5 K) along all its length. The gas mixture was preheated to the reaction temperature through silica bits before reaching the catalyst, supported on a silica frit. The temperature was monitored by two thermocouples, one outside the reactor for the Fig. 1. Thermodynamic equilibrium between C4s.
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
159 oven regulation, the other in a quartz nger in contact with the catalyst. Gases were extracted either by a syringe for gas chromatographic analyses or by a line directly connected to a mass spectrometer (this mass spectrometer was not used for the experiments reported in this article). The gas chromatograph (Hew- lett-Packard 5890 Series II) was equipped with a PONA capillary column and a ame ionization detec- tor. A temperature programme starting at 252 K was required to obtain a good separation of the different products, especially isobutene and 1-butene. All the hydrocarbons from methane to n-pentane were easily detected and their molar fractions measured under these conditions. The conversion, selectivity and product distribution were calculated from the GC analysis of the exit gas. Selectivities were reported on a C4-basis.
The conversion was dened as the percentage of n-butane transformed by the reaction. All reaction products were combined in equivalent C4, ignoring the hydrogen balance, i.e.
Conversion C1=4  C2=2 PC3  C1  P C4 n-butane
C1=4  C2=2  PC3  C1  P C4
where Cn means molar concentration.
Different selectivities were:
the total C4 selectivity corresponding to the sum of all the C4 products obtained from n-butane;
the cracking selectivity corresponding to the sum
C1/4C2/2PC3  C1;
the useful selectivity adding to the C4 selectivity,the amount of propene and ethylene formed, Fig. 2. Diagram of the dehydrogenation micropilot. 160
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
considering methane, ethane and propane as use- less products.
The yield for a molecule could be dened as the product of its selectivity and the total butane conver- sion.
3.2. Catalyst characterization
The amount of the different elements, Mo, O, C,present on the catalyst was measured by elemental analysis using an atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) at the Service Central d'Analyse of the CNRS (France).X-ray diffraction (XRD) was performed on a D-500 Siemens powder diffractometer operated at 40 kVand 20 mA was used working with the Co K10.178897 nm. The sample was crushed in an agate mortar and the powder was packed on the glass slide. Samples were exposed to radiation from 108 to 1008 of 2-angle with a step-scan mode. The nature of the crystalline phase was checked using the data base of the Joint Committee on Powder Diffraction Standards
(JCPDS).
The pore size and surface area measurements were performed on a Micromeritics ASAP-2000 porosi- meter using N2 as adsorbent at LN2 temperature.
The pore size distribution was obtained from the desorption branch of the isotherm. Before each mea- surement, the sample was heated at 573 K for 1 h under dynamic vacuum in order to desorb the impu- rities on its surface. Due to the high sensitivity of the oxycarbide phase, all the sample transfers and mani- pulations were carried out under an N2 atmosphere,i.e. glove-box or BET cell equipped with greaseless valves. The sample surface area was calculated from the N2 isotherm using the BET method.
Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and EDS microanalysis techniques were used to provide infor- mation on the microstructure of the catalyst, espe- cially when the amorphous phase was present. TEM and EDS were carried out in a Topcon Model EM200B operating at 200 kV equipped with beryllium window detectors, with a point to point resolution of 0.17 nm.
To prevent artifacts due to contamination, no solvents were used at any stage and samples were prepared by grinding the catalysts between glass plates and bring- ing the powder into contact with a holey carbon- coated copper grid. Great care was taken during the TEM experiments in order to avoid heating effects from the incident beam.
4. Results and discussion
4.1. Molybdenum oxycarbide synthesis at 623 K
Five hundred mg of pure MoO3 (STREM, >99.5%) was activated according to the procedure described by Ledoux et al. [18,19]. This material was treated by
0.1 bar of n-butane and 0.9 bar of H2 at 623 K, for
16 h, at a weight hourly space velocity (WHSV) of 2 h1, to obtain a steady state where the isomerization conversion of n-butane and the selectivity for iso- butane were stable at 8.5% and 93%, respectively.
The other reaction products were light molecules: C1, C2 and C3.
At this stage the XRD diagram of the catalyst (Fig. 3(a)) showed the presence of two crystalline phases, MoO2 and an oxycarbide MoOxCy already Fig. 3. XRD pattern of: (a) MoO3 activated under a mixture of
H2:n-Butane (9:1 molar ratio) at 623 K for 16 h at atmospheric
pressure and (b) MoO3 activated in (a) followed by n-butane dehydrogenation test at 823 K.
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
161 characterized by several physical techniques such as XRD, XPS, TPR and electron microscopy published previously by Ledoux et al. [13,19,20]. The MoO3 to MoOxCy transformation occurred at low temperature through a reduction process (oxygen vacancy forma- tion) and carbon diffusion according to the previous results obtained on this system [13,19]. Such a meta- stable oxycarbide phase was very similar to the molyb- denum oxynitride phase detected as an intermediate product during the nitridation process of MoO3 by an ammonia and hydrogen mixture [21,22] and differs from the high temperature oxycarbide by its low carbon content and the high amount of oxygen in the lattice. The relative weakness of the diffraction lines of the MoOxCy phase observed in the XRD pattern compared to those of the MoO2 phase was attributed to the low ordered structure (amorphous- like structure) of the oxycarbide phase which rendered it less sensitive to detection by a bulk crystalline technique. It was shown by HRTEM obtained pre- viously on the system [13], that a large amount of the oxycarbide was amorphous, located on the surface,which agreed well with the weak diffraction lines observed by XRD for the oxycarbide phase. The presence of such an amorphous phase was highlighted by the signicant increase of the catalyst surface area during the course of the transformation and by TEM observation (see below). Such a phenomenon could be explained by the fact that during the course of reduc- tion, the starting oxide structure was strongly dis- ordered by the formation of anionic vacancies inside its matrix and thus leading to the formation of a low-ordered structure material [13]. Under pure hydrogen feed, when a denite number of anionic vacancies was formed in the starting MoO3 matrix,these vacancies were removed by the formation of shear planes through a crystallographic shear mechan- ism which transformed the lattice arrangement from corner-sharing, MoO3, to edge-sharing, MoO2, octa- hedra [23]. The edge-sharing, MoO2, had an ordered structure which exhibited well-dened diffraction lines. In the presence of carbon along with hydrogen in the feed, a second parallel process was involved: the anionic vacancies' removal via the crystallographic shear mechanism was interrupted by the insertion of carbon atoms into the vacancies, leading to the for- mation of a second phase, MoOxCy. This metastable oxycarbide phase crystallized in a cubic face centered system with a rather large sub stoichiometry of the molybdenum atoms [24].The MoO2 was expected to be a side-product formed via the oxygen vacancies' rearrangement through crystallographic shear (CS) according to the previous work of Spevack and McIntyre [23]. The MoO2 formation could not be avoided during the transformation when starting with MoO3 and this formation has been discussed in detail in previous publications [13,24]. TEM observation (not shown) revealed that MoO2 was formed on the catalyst in large particles well crystallized.The elemental analysis of the solid (MoO2 MoOxCy) gave: Mo 74.7%, O 25.05%, C 0.24%.The presence of two phases, MoO2 and MoOxCy,render the calculation of the oxycarbide stoichiometry impossible in this case. The low amount of carbon detected in the catalyst was not surprising since the insertion of carbon atoms in only a small number of anionic vacancies was probably sufcient to block the rearrangement of these vacancies through crystallo- graphic shear mechanism to form the ordered MoO2 structure. The most realistic structure for such an oxycarbide phase was a reminiscent form of the parent oxide containing a relatively large number of anionic vacancies blocked by a small and randomly distributed number of carbon atoms. The presence of the two molybdenum phases, MoO2 and MoOxCy, led us to believe that the real concentration of carbon in the MoOxCy phase was higher. Such a compound contain- ing carbon atoms is easily conceivable in the molyb- denum chemistry because it is similar to hydrogen insertion compounds reported in the literature such as molybdenum bronze, HxMoO3 with x varying between
0.2% and 2% [2527]. This oxycarbide is also similar
to that reported by Leclercq and co workers [28] by decomposition of Mo(CO)6 on a tungsten wire kept at 1273 K which had a stoichiometry of MoO1.65C0.35 with a relatively low amount of carbon. HRTEM observation (Fig. 4) reveals that the molybdenum oxycarbide phase obtained has a highly disordered structure with low ordered distance and contains a signicant amount of amorphous phase.
The BET surface area was measured at 155 m2/g.
The starting MoO3 had a surface area of 4 m2/g. The increase in the sample surface area was mainly attrib- uted to the formation of several phases within the starting MoO3 crystals which resulted in crystal frac- 162
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
tures with concomitant formation of pores and chan- nels producing high surface area materials. Similar results have already been reported in the literature during the synthesis of high surface area carbides from their low surface area parent oxides [22,29,30]. How- ever, the increase in surface area observed when going from MoO3 to MoO2 and MoOxCy cannot only be attributed to the geometric change of the crystalline phases due to the relatively narrow width of the diffraction peaks, i.e. relatively large particles. Con- sequently, the increase in surface could also be linked to the formation of an amorphous phase as observed by TEM which exhibited a high surface area.
In summary it can be stated that MoO3 was trans- formed at 623 K in the presence of n-butane and hydrogen mixture into MoO2 (an inactive catalyst for dehydrogenation) and an oxycarbide phase (MoOxCy) with a low carbon content being mainly amorphous. This phase showed the capacity to iso- merize n-butane into isobutane with high selectivity (98%). However, the oxycarbide phase obtained was not efcient for n-butane dehydrogenation due to the low temperature used. As briey summarized in Sec- tion 2 presented above, in order to obtain an accep- table n-butane dehydrogenation conversion,the reaction had to be carried out at elevated temperature,
823 K.
4.2. Dehydrogenation test at 823 K over
molybdenum oxycarbide As the catalyst was composed of two crystalline phases, i.e. MoO2 and MoOxCy, a preliminary test had to be carried out with at least one pure phase in order to ensure which one was the active phase for the reaction considered. Dehydrogenation carried out on pure MoO2 (obtained by treating commercial MoO2 with an hydrogen ow in order to reduce the surface layer of MoO3) allowed us to conrm that this oxide only exhibited a low conversion for n-butane dehydrogena- tion along with a very low selectivity. However, at the reaction temperature (823 K) and reactant feed (n-C4H10, H2 and steam) used in this study one could not exclude the supercial transformation of the uppermost layers of MoO2 into an oxycarbide phase as a function of time-on-stream.
A test was performed on the MoO3carbon-modi- ed catalyst activated at 623 K but the temperature was raised in few seconds up to 823 K in order to work in the required range of temperatures. Fig. 7c shows the evolution of the yields for the different products versus time-on-stream obtained on the mixture of MoO2 and MoOxCy catalysts formed from MoO3 at 623 K. At the very beginning of the reaction the total yield was close to 62% with a third of this being C4 products. This C4 yield decreased rapidly together with (C3C1) and 2C2 yields to the benet of exten- sive cracking into 4C1; after 5 h, all butane was transformed into methane. However, it was interesting to note that during the rst hour of reaction, almost half of the C4s produced were either isobutane or isobutene (Fig. 5). At 823 K under the reactant mix- ture, a signicant modication was occurring on the catalyst surface leading to the formation of an active but completely unselective catalyst.
The XRD diagram showed a profound modication of the solid (Fig. 3(b)). The MoOxCy oxycarbide and MoO2 had disappeared and been transformed into a poorly crystallized Mo oxycarbide containing a high amount of carbon atoms and corresponding to the XRD pattern of a cubic structure stabilized by a small amount of oxygen reported in the JCPDS no. 17-104.
The new oxycarbide phase formed at 823 K had a Fig. 4. HRTEM micrograph of the MoO3carbon-modified catalyst after activated at 623 K.
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
163 similar structure compared to that obtained at 623 K but with a smaller cell parameter as indicated by the shift of the diffraction peaks towards a low two-theta angle (Fig. 3). The increase of the catalyst cell para- meter from 410 to 418 pm was attributed to the loss of oxygen atoms in the material by direct reduction or exchange with carbon atoms in the gas phase. Lee et al. [29] have also reported the existence of a metastable -MoC1x cubic phase which was formed by carburization under a mixture of CH4/H2 of an intermediate oxycarbide, formed catalytically at a rather low reaction temperature, i.e. 500 K.
The elemental analysis gave: Mo: 77.8%, O: 5.65%,
C: 16.6% and the BET surface area of the catalyst after
reaction was 124 m2/g. Apparently, depending on the reaction temperature, several molybdenum oxycar- bide phases, containing more or less carbon, could be observed, displaying large differences in activities and selectivities [31].
The strong deactivation observed at the beginning of the test was attributed to the catalyst surface sintering when heated from 623 to 823 K and to the formation of carbonaceous resi- dues blocking the access of the active sites. The increase of the catalytic activity and the drastic drop of the dehydrogenation selectivity was attributed to the carbon incorporation leading to the direct reduc- tion of the catalyst along with the formation of a pseudo-carbidic phase (carbon-rich oxycarbide) [29] which was active for extensive hydrogenolysis. Such a phenomenon has been reported by several authors in the carbide literature [32,33]. Similar surface modi- cation was also reported by Oyama [30] during the study of ammonia synthesis over the carbon-rich oxycarbide MoOaCb catalyst at 773 K. The author had observed that the catalytic activity slowly increased as a function of time-on-stream to reach a steady state similar to that observed on the pure nitride catalyst. Such a result was explained by the rapid nitridation of the uppermost layers of the oxycarbide by the nitrogen compound present in the reactant feed.
Delporte et al. [33] have reported that the cubic molybdenum oxycarbide, selective for isomerization,formed by reaction between MoO3 and a mixture of hydrogen and n-hexane at 623 K, was rapidly carbur- ized at 648 K leading to the formation of an unselec- tive catalyst although no changes were observed in the XRD patterns. Similar results have also been reported by Resasco et al. [34] during isobutane dehydrogena- tion over a sulded nickel catalyst at 873 K at atmo- spheric pressure. The authors observed that as a function of time-on-stream, the sulded nickel surface became carburized. However, the surface nickel car- bide supported on bulk sulded nickel was more selective towards isobutane dehydrogenation when compared to the carbon-rich molybdenum oxycarbide.
The high surface area (124 m2/g) of the carbon-rich oxycarbide obtained under a mixture of hydrogen and n-butane at 823 K was in close agreement with the literature results of the synthesis of high surface area carbides, nitrides or oxynitrides [21,22,35].
It was clear, following this series of experiments,that the MoOxCy oxycarbide was an interesting mate- rial for the simultaneous isomerization and dehydro- genation of butane, but was not stable enough and underwent structural modication under the condi- tions used for these reactions to produce the carbon- rich oxycarbide phase. The main problem was thus the carboreduction of the Mo oxygen-rich oxycarbide (MoOxCy) into an Mo carbon-rich oxycarbide (MoOaCb). One way of stabilizing should be the co-feed of an oxygen containing molecule, able to maintain a signicant concentration of oxygen on the surface to block the process of reduction. Water was the rst additive tested because it was harmless to use.
4.3. Effect of steam and oxygen on catalyst stability
and dehydrogenation behavior The catalyst was activated at 623 K and then the reaction temperature was rapidly increased to 823 K under the same conditions as described above. The Fig. 5. Linear versus iso-C4 selectivity on activated MoO3 at
823 K.
164
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
steam was introduced into the reactant feed using a saturator at the beginning of the dehydrogenation test at 823 K. Three different partial pressures of steam were tested: 5, 18 and 52 Torr (0.6%, 2.4% and 6.8% in volume). The 52 Torr experiments are not reported as no improvements were found when compared to 18 Torr; even a slight decrease in conversion could sometimes be observed. In Fig. 6 the evolution of the conversion and the C4 selectivity versus time-on- stream when the feed contained 0, 5 or 18 Torr of steam is reported. All the experiments were run under similar conditions: 823 K, 500 mg of MoO3, and WHSV2 h1.
The addition of 5 Torr of steam was not sufcient and both conversion and selectivity were found in an intermediate situation when compared to dry feed and to 18 Torr of steam. The feed containing 18 Torr of steam accelerated the drop in conversion with time- on-stream but allowed the reaction to reach a high and stable selectivity. It must be pointed out that the dehydrogenation conversion observed on the stable catalyst, after 2 h on test, was around 68% which was signicant considering the relatively high space velo- city of the n-butane in the feed, WHSV of 2 h1. The yield of C4 products (Fig. 7) became signicant because of the high selectivity observed. However,this stable and high total selectivity in C4 products did not reect a stable internal distribution in C4 mole- cules. The concentration of the linear olens (butene- 1, butene-2-cis and trans) increased quite rapidly during the rst three hours of reaction while the relative concentrations of isobutane and, to a lesser extent, of isobutene, decreased during the same time (Fig. 8). It was interesting to note that the selectivity of olens (propene and ethylene) inside the cracked molecules was as high as 35% when on other con- ventional catalysts like platinum, this selectivity was much lower than 10%.
Fig. 6. Effect of steam on activated MoO3 at 823 K: (a) Conversion; (b) C4 selectivity.
Fig. 7. Product yields in equivalent C4 on MoO3carbon-modified (activated at 623 K) at 823 K as a function of steam partial pressure.
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
165 The increase in the dehydrogenation selectivity observed with 18 Torr of steam could be explained as a selective poisoning of hydrogenolysis sites by H2O adsorption which consequently would increase the C4 dehydrogenation selectivity. However, the XRD results obtained indicated that this was not the case. From Fig. 9(a), it was clear that 5 Torr of the steam was not sufcient to stop the evolution of the active phase towards the molybdenum carbide con- taining oxygen MoCaOb already observed in the absence of steam (compare Fig. 9(a) with Fig. 3(b)).
On the contrary 18 Torr of steam roughly preserved the structure of the initial active phase as shown when the XRD patterns of Fig. 9(b) were compared to those in Fig. 3(a). If the role of steam was limited only to selective poisoning of the hydrogenolysis site, one should expect to nd a similar XRD pattern whatever is the steam concentration. It seems from the results that the role of steam was to provide an oxygen balance on the catalyst surface during the reaction.
However, when the BET surfaces were measured:initially, after 15 min and after 8 h under reaction at 823 K, a severe sintering of the material was observed,respectively, 155, 33 and 20 m2/g. The loss of the catalyst surface area was mainly due to the pore size modication during the course of the reaction: the highly microporous (25 nm) catalyst obtained at 623 K was transformed into a mesoporous material (2030 nm) (Fig. 10). This decrease in surface area was parallel to the decrease in conversion and could easily be responsible for the sharp decrease in activity.
As the widths of the peaks in the XRD diagrams were not very much affected by this sintering (except for MoO2 which seemed to be more crystallized after 8 h),the strong sintering could be due to the disappearance of the amorphous oxycarbide, very active for the isomerization reaction and would explain the decrease in iso molecules observed in parallel to the deactiva- tion. The remaining crystallized oxycarbide would Fig. 8. Internal C4 selectivity on activated MoO3 at 823 K and with 18 Torr of steam.
Fig. 9. XRD diagrams of activated MoO3 after reaction under 5 Torr of steam (a) and under 18 Torr of steam (b) at 823 K.
Fig. 10. Porous distribution before and after reaction of activated MoO3 catalyst. 166
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
still be active for dehydrogenation but far less for isomerization.
The strong sintering of the surface was expected to be due to both the high temperature and the presence of water. The steam action could be compared to the hydrothermal treatment of alumina where the forma- tion of hydroxyl groups at the surface favors the recrystallization of the solid resulting in a signicant loss of the material surface area [36]. The main role of the steam was to maintain a high enough concentration of oxygen to avoid the carburization of the active phase; for this it was necessary that some of the water molecules were dissociated on the surface to provide active oxygen. To test this hypothesis, steam was replaced by pure oxygen mixed with the feed (7.3 Torr of O2). The results were strictly identical to those obtained in the presence of steam (Fig. 11). The deactivation due to the sintering or the recrystalliza- tion of the active phase was also observed. This was explained by considering that during the reaction, a part of the oxygen atoms adsorbed on the catalyst surface was converted into water to induce the sinter- ing.
The drop in the dehydrogenation activity during the course of the reaction could also be attributed to coke formation which blocked the access to the catalyst surface. However, it was assumed that, under the reaction conditions used, carbonaceous residue for- mation was not the main cause of the deactivation observed as steam present in the feed signicantly lowered the amount of this residue through water gas- shift reaction.
Clearly, the addition of steam to the reactant feed allowed the stabilization of the Mo oxycarbide stoichiometry (MoOxCy), with low carbon content,leading to a signicant stabilization of the dehydro- genation selectivity. However, steam apparently accel- erated the sintering of the active phase and which consequently strongly decreased the overall dehydro- genation activity. The increase and the stabilization of the high initial conversion by supporting the active phase on silicon carbide in order to decrease the sintering phenomenon observed above and by improv- ing the dispersion of the active phase are the object of further studies which will be published in another article [37]. The nature of the different kind of carbon presented on the catalyst, i.e. carbonaceous residues,oxycarbide, carbide, will also be investigated by tem- perature-programmed oxidation coupled with mass spectrometer detector (TPOMS).
4.4. Hydrogen partial pressure effect on the
dehydrogenation activity Because of the limitation due to heat transfer dif- culties discussed above (highly endothermic reaction),the kinetics of the reaction according to butane partial pressure could not be performed accurately but the role of the hydrogen partial pressure was investigated.
The n-butane partial pressure was kept constant at
0.1 bar and hydrogen was diluted by a helium ow in
order to obtain 0.9, 0.6, 0.1 and 0.05 bar of hydrogen,all other parameters being kept constant. The results are reported in Fig. 12 and it is clear that the diminu- tion of the hydrogen pressure did not affect the P C4 selectivity but strongly increased the drop in the conversion after the high initial activity. The precise analysis of the reaction products indicated a clear correlation between the decrease in the hydrogen partial pressure and the increase in the butadiene concentration.
The TEM of samples of the used catalyst showed a large coverage of the surface by carbonaceous resi- dues, product of the butadiene condensation (Fig. 13).
Fig. 11. Compared effect of steam and oxygen on activated MoO3 at 823 K: (a) Conversion; (b) C4 selectivity.
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
167 Such behavior had already been observed over sup- ported metallic Pt catalysts, for which the deactivation rate was a function of the hydrogen concentration due to the fact that the coke deposited over the metallic particles could be partially removed through reaction with hydrogen. However, even at a high hydrogen to hydrocarbon ratio,deactivation always occurred because the deactivation induced by coke was faster than the coke removal by hydrogenation [38]. In this study a similar phenomenon was probably occurring eventhough steam present in the feed must participate in the carbonaceous removal via water gas shift reac- tion. Although the conversion was strongly affected by these deactivation processes, the dehydrogenation selectivity remained unchanged (Fig. 12) whatever is the amount of H2. Consequently, the variation of the H2 to n-butane ratio was only responsible for site blocking without modications to the nature of the active sites. In the conventional processes on chromia or platinum starting from isobutane, this parasite reaction is not signicant as the dehydrogenation reaction of the branched molecule cannot lead to dienes; with the new route developed here, this pheno- menon should not be ignored during future develop- ments.
4.5. High temperature direct activation and oxidative
regeneration Because of the fairly short time of signicant con- version (12 h), the long activation period (37 h at 623 K) preceded by the burning of the coke and reoxidation of the solid into the starting MoO3, was not practical. Different conditions of regeneration/ reactivation cycles were tested and nally it was found that, because of the acceleration of the reaction due to the high temperature, a direct activation at 823 K, the temperature of reaction, under the reactant mixture was occurring in the very rst seconds of contact with the solid, and the active phase was then very close in terms of conversion and selectivity to the material prepared after the long activation procedure (Fig. 14).
The initial conversion was lower with the fast activa- tion but stable; the isomer selectivity (isobuta- neisobutene) was also lower probably because of the smaller amount of amorphous active oxycarbide formed by the fast activation. The molybdenum cat- alyst pre-activated at low temperature exhibited a high starting surface area (145 m2/g) and thus provided a higher density of active sites for the dehydrogenation reaction when compared to the catalyst activated directly at high temperature. It was expected that the sample directly activated at high temperature Fig. 12. Effect of H2 partial pressure on activated MoO3 at 823 K in the presence of 18 Torr of steam.
Fig. 13. HRTEM micrograph of MoO3carbon-modified catalyst covered by carbonaceous residues after catalytic test at low hydrogen partial pressure. 168
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
would already be sintered and consequently exhibit a quite low surface area. These differences should dis- appear when MoO3 is supported on SiC [37]. The oxidation of the deactivated catalyst could be done in a couple of minutes at the reaction temperature of 823 K with a mixture of oxygen and nitrogen containing 5% of oxygen. It was necessary during this regeneration to keep the temperature of the catalyst below 923 K,especially in the presence of steam, in order to avoid any MoO3 evaporation or transport. The results obtained on the catalyst as a function of reaction and regeneration cycles are reported in Fig. 15(a) and (b).
5. Conclusion
MoO3 was found, after activation under a mixture of hydrogen and hydrocarbon, to be a suitable material for performing simultaneous isomerization and dehy- drogenation of n-butane. The material as such was not stable in a dry feed because it underwent composition modications and was rapidly transformed into Mo carbide, an efcient catalyst for the total hydrogeno- lysis into methane. The catalyst selectivity and stoi- chiometry could be maintained by addition of a small amount of steam in the reactant feed. Steam provided oxygen which hindered the carboreduction of the active and selective oxycarbide phase. The initial conversion was close to the thermodynamic limit but very quickly decreased both because of the sinter- ing of the active phase, induced by the presence of steam, and because of the formation of coke; the selectivity in C4 olen products was reaching the range of 80%. The selectivity inside the cracked molecules showed a large fraction of valuable propene and ethylene. The catalyst was strongly deactivated when the H2:n-butane molar ratio was decreased because of the formation of coke on the surface blocking access to the active site. Finally, the catalyst was easily reactivated by a rapid oxidative regenera- tion at the reaction temperature.
However, the dehydrogenation activity obtained at the steady state was not high enough and necessitated a signicant improvement. Further developments will be necessary to improve the level of dehydrogenation and the stability of the catalyst with time, mainly by supporting the catalyst with an appropriate carrier Fig. 14. Effect of the activation temperature in the presence of 18 Torr of steam.
Fig. 15. Effect of the regeneration cycle on the conversion (a) and selectivity (b) of the dehydrogenation reaction.
M.J. Ledoux et al. / Applied Catalysis A: General 181 (1999) 157170
169 material, i.e. SiC, and by changing the reaction con- ditions and these will be the subject of a further article [37]. The evolution of the catalyst's microstructure and the nature of the different carbon species present on it will also be investigated by means of HRTEM and TPOMS techniques.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


What factors have driven the exploration of vanadium oxide-based catalysts as alternatives to Pt and CrOx for paraffin dehydrogenation, how has research in this area evolved since the 1980s, and how do variables such as carrier type, support surface area, and metal loading influence the nature and behavior of vanadium species in these catalysts?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 