<quotes>
(5) "On the topic of supported metal catalysts, an enormous amount of effort has been devoted to improving the performances by optimizing the structural parameters of metal nanoparticles (e.g., particle size, morphology, electronic state, and loading)."
(1) "Zeolite with a hydrophobic sheath efficiently enriched hydrogen peroxide that was produced in situ on the AuPd nanoparticles in zeolite crystals, boosting the methane oxidation at low temperature."
(2) "Fixing metal nanoparticles within zeolite crystals via seed-directed growth led to superior sinter resistance in the catalytic reactions under harsh conditions."
(3) "The product selectivity in Pd-catalyzed furfural hydrogenation was tuned by controlling the diffusion of molecules in zeolite micropores."
(4) "Optimizing the steric adsorption of substituted nitroarenes in the zeolite micropores and on the fixed Pd nanoparticles led to improved selectivity for the hydrogenation of nitro groups."
(5) "In metal@zeolite catalysts, the metal nanoparticles are localized within the zeolite crystals and are indirectly accessible to the external surface, where the molecules have to diffuse through the micropores to access the metal nanoparticles."
(6) "The existing methods for synthesizing the metal-in-zeolite structure have been previously reviewed, (49) and we will focus on the catalysis of the zeolite fixed metal nanoparticles in this Account."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Efforts have been made to optimize the structural parameters of metal nanoparticles, including particle size, morphology, electronic state, and loading, to improve the performance of supported metal catalysts.

2. A hydrophobic zeolite sheath efficiently enriched hydrogen peroxide produced in situ on AuPd nanoparticles in zeolite crystals, enhancing methane oxidation at low temperatures.

3. Fixing metal nanoparticles within zeolite crystals via seed-directed growth resulted in superior sinter resistance in catalytic reactions under harsh conditions.

4. Controlling the diffusion of molecules in zeolite micropores and optimizing the steric adsorption of nitroarenes led to improved selectivity in the hydrogenation of nitro groups.

5. Metal nanoparticles in metal@zeolite catalysts are localized within zeolite crystals, requiring molecules to diffuse through micropores to reach the metal nanoparticles.

6. The Account will focus on the catalysis of zeolite fixed metal nanoparticles, building upon previously reviewed synthesis methods.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 已经致力于优化金属纳米颗粒的结构参数，包括颗粒大小、形态、电子状态和负载，以提高支持型金属催化剂的性能。

2. 具有疏水外壳的沸石能够有效地富集原位产生的AuPd纳米粒子在沸石晶体中的过氧化氢，从而在低温下增强甲烷的氧化作用。

3. 通过种子导向生长方法固定金属纳米颗粒在沸石晶体中，导致在苛刻条件下催化反应的优异抗结块性能。

4. 控制沸石微孔中的分子扩散和优化取代硝基芳烃的立体吸附，实现了硝基氢化选择性的提高。

5. 金属纳米颗粒在金属@沸石催化剂中的定位在沸石晶体内部，要求分子通过微孔到达金属纳米颗粒。

6. 本报告将专注于沸石固定金属纳米颗粒的催化作用，基于先前已综述的合成方法。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
