I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


element not found
Accounts of Chemical ResearchVol 54/Issue 11Article Cite Share Jump to Expand ARTICLEMay 17, 2021 Zeolite Fixed Metal Nanoparticles: New Perspective in Catalysis Yeqing Wang Chengtao Wang Lingxiang Wang Liang Wang* Feng-Shou Xiao* Open PDF Abstract Conspectus Loading metal nanoparticles on the surface of solid supports has emerged as an efficient route for the preparation of heterogeneous catalysts. Notably, most of these supported metal nanoparticles still have shortcomings such as dissatisfactory activity and low product selectivity in catalysis. In addition, these metal nanoparticles also suffer from deactivation because of nanoparticle sintering, leaching, and coke formation under harsh conditions. The fixation of metal nanoparticles within zeolite crystals should have advantages of high activities for metal nanoparticles and excellent shape selectivity for zeolite micropores as well as extraordinary stability of metal nanoparticles immobilized with a stable zeolite framework, which is a good solution for the shortcomings of supported metal nanoparticles.
Materials with metal nanostructures within the zeolite crystals are normally denoted as metal@zeolite, where the metal nanoparticles with diameters similar to those of industrial catalysts are usually larger than the micropore size. These metal nanoparticles are enveloped with the zeolite rigid framework to prevent migration under harsh reaction conditions, which is described as a fixed structure. The zeolite micropores allow the diffusion of reactants to the metal nanoparticles. As a result, metal@zeolite catalysts combine the features of both metal nanoparticles (high activity) and zeolites (shape selectivity and thermal stability), compared with the supported metal nanoparticles.
In this Account, we describe how the zeolite micropore and metal nanoparticle synergistically work to improve the catalytic performance by the preparation of a variety of metal@zeolite catalysts. Multiple functions of zeolites with respect to the metal nanoparticles are highlighted, including control of the reactant/product diffusion in the micropores, the adjustment of reactant adsorption on the metal nanoparticles, and sieving the reactants and products with zeolite micropores. Furthermore, by optimizing the wettability of the zeolite external surface, the zeolite crystals could form a nanoreactor to efficiently enrich the crucial intermediates, thus boosting the performance in low-temperature methane oxidation. Also, the microporous confinement weakens the adsorption of C1 intermediates on the metal sites, accelerating the CC coupling to improve C2 oxygenate productivity in syngas conversion. In particular, the zeolite framework efficiently stabilizes the metal nanoparticles against sintering and leaching to give durable catalysts. Clearly, this strategy not only guides the rational design of efficient heterogeneous catalysts for potential applications in a variety of industrial chemical reactions but also accelerates the fundamental understanding of the catalytic mechanisms by providing new model catalysts.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright  2021 American Chemical Society Subjects what are subjects Catalysts Hydrogenation Metal Nanoparticles Selectivity Zeolites Key References Jin, Z.; Wang, L.; Zuidema, E.; Mondal, K.; Zhang, M.; Zhang, J.; Wang, C. T.; Meng, X. J.; Yang, H. Q.; Mesters, C.; Xiao, F.-S. Hydrophobic Zeolite Modification for in Situ Peroxide Formation in Methane Oxidation to Methanol. Science 2020, 367, 19319710.1126/science.aaw1108. (1)Zeolite with a hydrophobic sheath efficiently enriched hydrogen peroxide that was produced in situ on the AuPd nanoparticles in zeolite crystals, boosting the methane oxidation at low temperature.
Zhang, J.; Wang, L.; Zhang, B. S.; Zhao, H. S.; Kolb, U.; Zhu, Y. H.; Liu, L. M.; Han, Y.; Wang, G. X.; Wang, C. T.; Su, D. S.; Gates, B. C.; Xiao, F.-S. Sinter-Resistant Metal Nanoparticle Catalysts Achieved by Immobilization within Zeolite Crystals via Seed-Directed Growth. Nat. Catal. 2018, 1, 54054610.1038/s41929-018-0098-1. (2)Fixing metal nanoparticles within zeolite crystals via seed-directed growth led to superior sinter resistance in the catalytic reactions under harsh conditions.
Wang, C. T.; Wang, L.; Zhang, J.; Wang, H.; Lewis, J. P.; Xiao, F.-S. Product Selectivity Controlled by Zeolite Crystals in Biomass Hydrogenation over a Palladium Catalyst. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2016, 138, 7880788310.1021/jacs.6b04951. (3)The product selectivity in Pd-catalyzed furfural hydrogenation was tuned by controlling the diffusion of molecules in zeolite micropores.
Zhang, J.; Wang, L.; Shao, Y.; Wang, Y. Q.; Gates, B. C.; Xiao, F.-S. A Pd@Zeolite Catalyst for Nitroarene Hydrogenation with High Product Selectivity by Sterically Controlled Adsorption in the Zeolite Micropores. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2017, 56, 9747975110.1002/anie.201703938. (4)Optimizing the steric adsorption of substituted nitroarenes in the zeolite micropores and on the fixed Pd nanoparticles led to improved selectivity for the hydrogenation of nitro groups.
1. Introduction
On the topic of supported metal catalysts, an enormous amount of effort has been devoted to improving the performances by optimizing the structural parameters of metal nanoparticles (e.g., particle size, morphology, electronic state, and loading). (519) In addition, the solid support is also a key factor in the catalytic performance because it not only provides a large surface for dispersing metal species but also electronically and/or geometrically modifies the metal nanoparticles via the strong metalsupport interactions. (10,12,14) In these cases, the metal nanoparticles are generally loaded on the external surface of solid supports, which might sinter into large particles. These catalysts normally fail to control the reaction selectivity because of the multiple active sites on metal nanoparticles that lack dominant factors.
With respect to the selectivity control in heterogeneous catalysis, it is well known that zeolites with uniform micropores have been successful in shape-selective catalysis. (2027) This concept was firstly reported by Weisz and Frilette to describe the unusual selectivity of the X zeolite compared with the amorphous aluminosilicate catalyst in n-decane cracking reactions, (27) and latter Derouane showed a novel effect of shape selectivity in the ZSM-5 zeolite. (28) Currently, the shape-selective feature is mostly used to optimize the reactions over zeolite heteroatom-based sites (e.g., acidic and basic sites and Ti and Fe sites). It is rarely linked to the supported metal nanoparticle catalysts because of the lack of uniform micropores to modify these nanoparticles. Several metal/metal oxide-zeolite composed catalysts have been used, hydrogenation occurred on the metals/metal oxides, and zeolites catalyzed the further transformation of the products from hydrogenation. In these cases, the shape-selective catalysis does not play a role in the hydrogenation step on metal/metal oxide species. (2931) For example, in the syngas-to-olefin transformation on the oxide-zeolite (OX-ZEO) catalysts, the syngas was primarily transformed into methanol or ketene species on the oxide and then these intermediate molecules were transformed into olefins in zeolite via shape-selective catalysis. (32,33) Localizing metal nanoparticles within the zeolite crystals has successfully linked the shape selectivity to the metal nanoparticle catalysts because the zeolite micropores could form a three-dimensional micropore modulation to the metal nanoparticles. (3439) In these cases, the zeolite micropores could serve as diffusion channels for the reactants and products, providing the local environment for the reaction that occurs. As a result, shape selectivity is induced into the metal-catalyzed reactions, giving enhanced product selectivity compared with the normally supported catalysts. For example, the molecules with different diameters could be sieved, where the reactant or product molecules that are larger than zeolite micropores would not enter the micropores, known as classical shape-selective catalysis. (4042) Recent theorical and experimental results demonstrate the controlled steric adsorption of reactants in the micropores, the weakened adsorption of crucial intermediates, and enriched key intermediates in the micropores, which significantly improve the catalytic performance. (43) These observations extend the concept of shape-selective catalysis and provide a deep understanding of the metalzeolite synergism in heterogeneous catalysis. These features are unique to the zeolite fixed metal nanoparticle catalysts, while the mesoporous materials and carbon-nanotube-encapsulated structure mostly failed to exhibit such features because of the nanopore size issue. (4448) Besides the shape selectivity, the rigid and thermally stable zeolite framework also efficiently hinders the metal sintering and leaching, realizing durable metal nanoparticle catalysts. (2) There are different types of metalzeolite composited catalysts, including isolated metal sites and small metal nanoclusters in the zeolite micropores or cages (metal size < micropore size, Figure 1a,b), where the metal species are anchored to the framework and do not break the zeolite structure. These metals species are usually moveable in the microporous channels under harsh conditions, leading to insufficient stability, and are generally denoted as an encapsulated structure. However, the fixed metal nanoparticles, with industrially desirable sizes that are larger than zeolite micropores, have to break the zeolite framework structure (crossing several micropores) and are immobilized (metal size > micropore size, Figure 1c) as shown in the high-resolution TEM images containing Pt and Pd nanoparticles in Beta zeolite crystals (Figure 1dj). (2,4) We described such structure as a fixation to distinguish from that of encapsulation (Figure 1c), and the fixed structure was discussed in this Account because of the significant advantage in catalyst stability. The existing methods for synthesizing the metal-in-zeolite structure have been previously reviewed, (49) and we will focus on the catalysis of the zeolite fixed metal nanoparticles in this Account. The structureperformance interplay was particularly discussed to emphasize the maximized metalzeolite synergism that outperforms the generally supported catalysts. Also, the developing trend of the metal@zeolite catalysts in the future was also reviewed.Figure 1 Figure 1. (ac) Scheme showing the metal@zeolite materials with different structures. (d, e, g) HR-TEM images of (d, e) Pd@Beta and (g) Pt@Beta. The yellow cycles highlighted the Pd or Pt nanoparticle. (f) Size distribution of Pd nanoparticles on Pd@Beta. (h) Enlarged view of the red square in g. The white cycle highlights the microdomains of polymorph B of zeolite Beta, overlaid by the BEB structure model viewed along [110]. (i) STEM image of a partially crystallized Pt@Beta sample and (j) corresponding electron diffraction pattern in the circle in i. Reprinted with permission from refs (49), (4), and (2). Copyright 2020 American Chemical Society (ac, ref (49)), 2018 Nature Publishing Group (gj, ref (4)), and 2017 Wiley-VCH (df, ref (2)).
2. Shape-Selective Catalysis by Molecular Diffusion Control
In metal@zeolite catalysts, the metal nanoparticles are localized within the zeolite crystals and are indirectly accessible to the external surface, where the molecules have to diffuse through the micropores to access the metal nanoparticles. Hence, the zeolite sheath could sieve molecules during the catalysis, thus exhibiting rationally controllable selectivity. An easily understandable example is the geometric effect of zeolite micropores on molecules with different diameters. Our previous investigation has reported that the AuPd@S-1 zeolite could efficiently catalyze the benzyl alcohol oxidation with conversions higher than 99% at 220 C but is poorly active for the 3,5-dimethyl benzyl alcohol oxidation with conversions lower than 10% due to its molecular diameter larger than the micropore of S-1 zeolite. (50) The S-1 fixed titania catalyst (TiO2@S-1) could efficiently catalyze the photodegradation of small molecules, such as phenol and aniline, but is inactive for the degradation of chlorophyll because of the molecular size effect. (51) Compared with sieving the molecules with different diameters, it is more challenging to control the selective transformation of molecules in the zeolite micropores. An example is the hydrogenation of furfural, a biomass-derived platform molecule that gives multiple products from the complex reaction pathways (Figure 2a). (5254) The primary hydrogenation leads to furfuryl alcohol and deep hydrogenation that could form furan and even tetrahydrofuran. On the generally supported Pd catalyst, such as Pd nanoparticles on the external surface of the S-1 zeolite (Pd/S-1), the furfuryl alcohol might be easily formed from a simple hydrogenation of CO to the COH group, giving a very low selectivity for furan (e.g., furan selectivity of 5.6% with a furfural conversion of 91.4% at 250 C). The oligomerization also occurs to form abundant bulky molecule products. In contrast, the S-1-zeolite-fixed Pd nanoparticles (Pd@S-1) exhibited superior furan selectivity (e.g., furan selectivity of 98.7% with furfural conversion of 91.3% at 250 C), (3) which is different from that of the generally supported Pd. This phenomenon is explained by the controlled diffusion of different products. For example, if furfural alcohol is formed on Pd nanoparticles from the primary hydrogenation, it is strongly adsorbed by the zeolite micropores and escapes with difficulty, as confirmed by the removal percentage at 3.9% in the in situ IR test charactering the molecular diffusion (Figure 2b). This feature benefits the deep hydrogenation. Once furan is formed, it easily escapes from the micropores as a final product because of the relatively weaker adsorption by the zeolite micropores with a removal percentage of 46.6% (Figure 2b). (3) Such a feature realizes a diffusion-controlled selective hydrogenation process. Because of the micropore size limitation, the oligomerization was also efficiently hindered to switch off the bulky molecule formation on the Pd@S-1 catalyst. This feature is unique on the zeolite fixed structure because of the three-dimensional encircling around the metal nanoparticles with micropores. Recently, Chai et al. also obtained high furan selectivity using the extremely small Pd nanoclusters encapsulated within the zeolite crystals, which also support the important role of zeolite crystals rather than the other factors (e.g., the Pd sizes). (55) If the zeolite sheath is artificially broken by hydrofluoric acid treatment, then the furan selectivity is obviously decreased to 46.2% (furfural conversion at 81.0% at 250 C). (3) Figure 2 Figure 2. (a) Complex reaction pathways in furfural hydrogenation. (b) Percentage of various molecules removed from Pd@S-1 during the preadsorption and desorption test, which represents the relative escape rate of various molecules. Reprinted with permission from ref (3). Copyright 2016 American Chemical Society.
Considering the importance of zeolite micropores, micropore modification is expected to further strengthen molecular diffusion. As revealed in furfural hydrogenation, the theorical and experimental study confirms that more hydroxyl groups in the zeolite framework could further accelerate the furan diffusion, thus switching off the side reactions, giving furan selectivity at almost 100% (coke is not included) under the full conversion of furfural. (54)
3. Shape-Selective Catalysis by Molecular Steric Adsorption
Besides the shape selectivity originating from the diffusion difference, the zeolite micropores also sterically controlled molecule adsorption on metal nanoparticles, which strongly influences the reaction selectivity. (4,56) As a typical model, the substituted nitroarenes, such as nitrobenzene containing Cl, CC, CO, CN, and CC groups, could be reduced using the generally supported Pd catalysts. Selective hydrogenation of the nitro group to desired substituted anilines is difficult because of the approximately parallel adsorption model (Figure 3a), which might originate from the dπ interaction between the benzene ring and the Pd surface. In this case, the multiple reducible groups could be simultaneously hydrogenated. It is reasonable to expect an adsorption with a target group solely interacting with the metal sites while the others do not, such as a molecule vertically standing on the metal surface. However, it is energetically unfavorable on the general Pd surface. Considering the molecular shape and pore size of zeolite, the Pd@zeolite materials show the sterically controllable adsorption of such molecules (Figure 3b). For example, the 4-nitrochlorobenzene has a molecular size of ca. 0.65 × 0.43 nm, while the Beta zeolite has a micropores size of ca. 0.66 nm. Because of the zeolite micropore limitation, the 4-nitrochlorobenzene adsorbs onto the Pd surface vertically. (4) In this case, NO2 would interact with the Pd species rather than the Cl group because of stronger nitroPd interaction (Figure 3c). As a consequence, the hydrogenation of NO2 to NH2 selectively occurs, giving 4-chloroaniline selectivity higher than 99% at the full conversion of 4-nitrochlorobenzene over Pd@Beta, while the normally supported catalysts exhibit selectivities ranging from 70.9 to 89.6%. (4) Such hydrogenation controlled by steric adsorption is universal, which could be extended to a series of substrates with multiple substituted groups (Figure 3d), (4) where the group with stronger adsorption to Pd would be preferentially hydrogenated.
Figure 3 Figure 3. (a, b) Proposed models showing the molecular adsorption in parallel and vertical modes on Pd/C and Pd@Beta catalysts, respectively. (c, d) Reprinted with permission from ref (4). Copyright 2017 Wiley-VCH.
4. Catalytic Performances Adjusted by Zeolite Wettability
In most practical reactions, water always exists in the reaction systems and strongly influences the catalysis. Typically, the transformation of bioethanol containing a large amount of water (even more than 80 wt %) suffers from water hindrance because of the waterethanol competitive adsorption on the active sites. (50) A general route requires the concentration and purification of alcohols for the transformation, but the waterethanol separation is energy-consuming. The direct ethanol transformation without purification is expected, but the activity is very low on the generally supported metal nanoparticle catalysts. Interestingly, the metal@zeolite catalysts successfully overcome this problem. The strategy is to fix AuPd nanoparticles within the S-1 zeolite, where the hydrophobic siliceous zeolite micropores are used for waterethanol separation. As shown in Figure 4, a high ethanol conversion is always obtained. Even if the amount of water is as high as 90%, the ethanol conversions were still about 82%. This phenomenon is explained by waterethanol separation in the hydrophobic siliceous zeolite micropores: ethanol accesses the AuPd sites more easily than water, which makes AuPd@S-1 a bifunctional nanoreactor for waterethanol separation and ethanol oxidation.
Figure 4 Figure 4. Data showing the performance of AuPd@S-1 and AuPd/S-1 catalysts in the oxidation of bioethanol with different water contents in the feed. (a) Ethanol conversion. Selectivities for (b) acetic acid, (c) ethyl acetate, and (d) acetaldehyde. Reprinted with permission from ref (50). Copyright 2015 Wiley-VCH.
Compared with the generally supported metal nanoparticle catalysts, a significant feature of metal@zeolite is that the products are formed within the zeolite crystals, which provides an opportunity to enrich the crucial intermediates to optimize the catalysis. Because the zeolite has open micropores, the molecules, particularly those with small sizes, could easily escape from the zeolite crystals. For example, in the oxidation of methane with hydrogen and oxygen (CH4 + H2 + O2  CH3OH + H2O) over supported metal nanoparticles, the H2O2 (or other peroxide intermediate species) generated from hydrogen and oxygen favors dissolution in the reaction liquor to form a dilute solution with poor activity. (57,58) By using the zeolite fixed metal catalysts, the H2O2 species could be efficiently enriched. Considering the hydrophilicity of H2O2, we constructed a hydrophobic sheath around the zeolite crystals to hinder the H2O2 diffusion (Figure 5a). (1) In this structure, once the H2O2 is formed inside of the zeolite crystals, the hydrophobic sheath could hinder the escape of H2O2 from the inner zeolite crystals, leading to enrichment within the micropores. (1) The enrichment effect is quantified by analyzing the H2O2 distribution in the direct synthesis of H2O2 from hydrogen and oxygen and methane oxidation using hydrogen and oxygen (Figure 5c). In both reactions on the supported AuPd catalysts and the AuPd@ZSM-5 catalyst without a hydrophobic sheath, H2O2 is dominantly distributed in the reaction liquor. On the contrary, AuPd@ZSM-5 with the hydrophobic sheath shows more than 78% of H2O2 within the zeolite crystals and less than 22% in the water solvent. These different H2O2 distributions should be due to the organic sheath on the zeolite, which hinders H2O2 diffusion through the zeolite orifices to enrich them within the zeolite crystals, denoted as molecular fences (Figure 5d,e). On the basis of the zeolite micropore volume and the amount of enriched H2O2, the H2O2 concentration within the zeolite crystals reaches about 10000 times that in the liquor. Notably, the reactants including methane, hydrogen, and oxygen could easily diffuse through the organic sheath, thus benefiting the efficient oxidation of methane to methanol, exhibiting superior performances to outperform the normally supported metal nanoparticle catalysts and the zeolite fixed AuPd catalyst without an organic sheath (Figure 5b). Under the competitive diffusion among methane, oxygen, and hydrogen, methanol could efficiently diffuse to avoid the overoxidation to form invaluable COx.
Figure 5 Figure 5. (a) Model of the AuPd@ZSM-5-R catalyst. (b) Data showing the performances of various catalysts in methane oxidation using hydrogen and oxygen. (c) Data showing the amount of H2O2 in the (left) H2O2 synthesis and (right) methane oxidation process. The enrichment efficacy is the percentage of H2O2 in zeolite crystals with respect to the total amount of H2O2 in the reactor. (d) Scheme showing the H2O2 enrichment in the molecular fence catalyst. (e) Scheme showing the H2O2 dispersion in the water solvent on the general catalyst without a molecular fence. Reprinted with permission from ref (1). Copyright 2020 AAAS.
In this process, protons in zeolite micropores are crucial to the individual step of H2O2 formation (H2 + O2  H2O2), a reaction that thermodynamically tends to form water rather than H2O2 (Figure 6a). (59,60) In the direct synthesis of H2O2 from hydrogen and oxygen in water solvent, the AuPd nanoparticles fixed within proton-form ZSM-5 (AuPd@HZSM-5, 0.32 mol gAuPd1 h1) exhibit obviously higher H2O2 productivity that in the sodium-form zeolite (AuPd@NaZSM-5, 0.07 mol gAuPd1 h1). In the D-labeled kinetic study, reactions with D2 or D2O give kH2/kD2 and kH2O/kD2O at 1.3 and 2.2, respectively (Figure 6b). The more obvious kinetic isotope effect on water than hydrogen (kH2O/kD2O > kH2/kD2) suggests water-assisted proton transfer to be a crucial step. (61) In the H2O2 synthesis using H2 and O2 in D2O, obvious HD signals were detected in the gaseous mixture but not in the AuPd@NaZSM-5 catalyst (Figure 6c), suggesting that the H species of water could participate in the reaction directly over the AuPd@HZSM-5 catalyst. We proposed the reaction pathways in Figure 6d,e, H2 was activated on the AuPd catalyst, and then the protonelectron pair transfer to oxygen to form H2O2 product. (59) In this route, the protons in the zeolite could exchange with the activated hydrogen species and accelerate the hydrogenation of oxygen, thus forming a zeolite-assisted proton-transfer mechanism. In contrast, such a function is unique to the AuPd@HZSM-5 catalyst but not to the AuPd@NaZSM-5 and generally supported AuPd catalysts.
Figure 6 Figure 6. (a) Transformation routes in the direct synthesis of H2O2. (b) H2O2 productivities in D-labeled experiments over AuPd@HZSM-5. (c) HD signal in the gas mixture of the H2O2 synthesis reaction over various catalysts. (d, e) Scheme showing the H2O2 synthesis from H2 and O2 over the AuPd@HZSM-5 catalyst. Reprinted with permission from ref (59). Copyright 2021 American Chemical Society.
5. Selective Hydrogenation of CO/CO2 Controlled by the Zeolite Micropore Environment
To enhance the catalytic performances of supported metal nanoparticle catalysts, most attention is focused on engineering the structural parameters of metal species, but the local environment of metal nanoparticles is usually overlooked. (6266) On the metal@zeolite catalyst, the hydrogenation selectivity could be optimized by adjusting the microporous environment to improve the well-known hydrogen spillover. (6770) In CO2 hydrogenation, the bare Rh surface is usually used as a model for the study of the structureperformance interplay, which normally produces both CO and methane products. (7173) It is impossible to obtain a sole CO product because of the CO cleavage to form methane. Notably, the Rh@S-1 zeolite with a siliceous framework imparts high selectivity to CO with hindered deep hydrogenation (Figure 7a,b), (74) where the reaction at 500 C gave a CO2 conversion of 51.6% and a CO selectivity of 79.8%. When defects (silanol groups) are artificially induced into the zeolite framework, the methane selectivity is obviously increased, giving a CO selectivity that is lower than 3% at 500 C. For the aluminosilicate zeolite-fixed Rh catalysts, artificially controlled performances could also be obtained, where the K-form and proton-form micropores benefit the production of CO and methane, respectively.
Figure 7 Figure 7. (a) Models showing the Rh@MFI zeolites with abundant silanol groups in the micropores. (b) Dependence of CO selectivity on CO2 conversion for various catalysts in CO2 hydrogenation. (c) WO3 color change. Photographs of samples made with 1 g of WO3 mixed with 0.02 g of various catalysts after treatment with H2 at 30 C for 10 min. Reprinted with permission from ref (74). Copyright 2019 American Chemical Society.
The distinguishable selectivities of these catalysts with similar Rh nanoparticles are strongly related to different zeolite micropore environments. Because the reaction selectivity is very sensitive to the active hydrogen species, we evaluate the hydrogen spillover ability of these catalysts by WO3 identification for an obvious change in color (Figure 7c). (74) The zeolites with abundant defects (silanol groups) and protons exhibit strong hydrogen spillover in the micropores, while the relatively perfect zeolite micropores and K-form aluminosilicate micropores give a much weaker hydrogen spillover. This phenomenon was consistent with their selectivities in CO2 hydrogenation, where silanol groups and protons in the micropores could enhance the hydrogen spillover to improve the activity in deep hydrogenation, forming the methane product.
Furthermore, it is also found that zeolite micropores weaken the molecular adsorption on the fixed metal nanoparticles. In the siliceous MFI zeolite fixed RhMn catalyst, the CO adsorption is obviously weakened compared with that on the supported RhMn nanoparticles. (43) Stronger CO adsorption usually poisons the metal surface and blocks the sites for hydrogen activation and might also lead to CO cleavage. On the RhMn@S-1 catalyst, weakened CO adsorption on the interfacial sites has been identified, giving the CO adsorption free energy of 1.65 eV in comparison with that on Rh atoms on the bare Rh surface (2.19 eV) and the generally supported RhMn species without zeolite modulation (1.93 eV). This feature efficiently improves the catalytic activity and product selectivity in CO hydrogenation (Figure 8a,b), giving oxygenate selectivity at 40.3% under a CO conversion of 42.4% (C2-oxygenate selectivity at 88.3% in the total oxygenates) that outperforms the supported RhMn catalysts. In addition, once CO is activated on the metal sites to form C1 intermediates, such as *CHO and *CH2, these species are weakly adsorbed to benefit subsequent CC coupling to form C2 oxygenates (Figure 8c). Density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveal that the RhMn nanostructure without zeolite fixation exhibits an energy barrier for CC coupling at 0.36 eV, which is reduced to 0.25 eV on the fixed RhMn nanostructure in zeolite crystals (Figure 8cf). (43) This understanding explains the optimized C2 oxygenate productivity by zeolite micropores in syngas conversion, which is a new feature for the selectivity control of metal@zeolite catalysts.
Figure 8 Figure 8. (a) Scheme showing the direct conversion of syngas to C2-oxygenates over the RhMn@S-1 catalyst. (b) Average productivities of C2-oxygenates and selectivities of methane/CO2 over various RhMn-based catalysts in the syngas conversion. (c) Reaction profile of syngas conversion on the RhMn@S-1 catalyst. The energy of CO in the gas phase plus eight adsorbed H* species is set to zero. The white, gray, red, purple, and cyan balls represent H, C, O, Mn, and Rh atoms, respectively. (df) Catalyst model and reaction barriers for CC coupling between *CH2 and *CHO on the RhMn catalyst with and without zeolite. Reprinted with permission from ref (43). Copyright 2020 Elsevier.
6. Stabilized Metal Nanoparticle Catalysts
On the supported metal nanoparticle catalysts, metal sintering usually leads to catalyst deactivation at reaction temperatures higher than the metal Taman temperature because of the reduction of active sites on the surface. (7578) Two mechanisms have been proposed in the metal sintering, including the metal nanoparticle migration route where the metal nanoparticles migrate on the support and sinter into larger particles and the Ostwald ripening route where metal atoms move one by one from small nanoparticles to larger ones. (7584) Zeolites have rigid frameworks and high thermal stability, which could be used to stabilize metal nanoparticles via the fixed structure. (2,11,74,85) For example, Pt, Pd, Rh, and Ag within Beta and the MFI zeolite exhibited unchanged particle sizes after calcination at 600 C in air, a condition that challenges the stability of supported nanoparticle catalysts, but the metal nanoparticles on the zeolite external surface were obviously sintered. (2) In the reaction tests, such as the watergas shift at 300 C and oxidative reforming of methane at 600 C, the metal nanoparticles were still sinter-resistant, with constant performance in catalytic tests for a long period. (2) To understand the sinter resistance of metal nanoparticles within zeolite crystals, the metal nanoparticle migration and metal ripening have been considered. The migration is excluded because it is reasonable to imagine that metal nanoparticles larger than the micropores are enveloped with the rigid zeolite framework. In this case, the migration of metal nanoparticles is efficiently prevented. Consider that the metal atoms could transfer through the zeolite micropores at temperatures close to the Tamman temperature, (35,86,87) which might meet the conditions for ripening, but the primary study on TEM characterization exhibited undetectable ripening of the fixed metal nanoparticles. It is difficult to determine the mechanism for sinter-resistant metal nanoparticles in zeolites. It is possible that the zeolite framework interacts with specific sites of metal nanoparticles to minimize the escape of these active metal atoms.
In addition to the hindered metal sintering in zeolite crystals, the zeolite fixation also stabilized the interfacial structure of nanoparticles with composed species. The interface between Rh and MnOx species acts as active sites for syngas-to-ethanol conversion. The generally supported Rh-MnOx catalysts usually exhibited poor durability because of the easily sintered Rh nanoparticles and the Rh-MnOx phase separation under the reductive reaction conditions to destroy the interfacial structure. (43,88) In the RhMn@S-1 catalyst, the fixed Rh nanoparticles are sinter-resistant and the Mn species are stabilized via the MnOSiOx interaction, thus giving stabilized Rh-MnOx interfacial structure during the reaction. (43) This conclusion is strongly evidenced by the X-ray absorption near-edge structure characterization of the used catalyst, where RhMn@S-1 still exhibited larger pre-edge energy than the generally supported RhMn catalysts (e.g., RhMn/SiO2 and destroyed RhMn/Al2O3), confirming that the Rh species are more positively charged. This feature should be due to the constant Rhδ+OMn interaction from the stable interfacial structure in zeolite crystals.
Metal leaching is also a general problem for the stability issue of many supported catalysts, particularly for the support Pd that has been used industrially but provides insufficient durability. For example, the industrial Pd/C catalyst leached 6.7% of the Pd species in the hydrogenation of 4-nitrochlorobenzene for 90 h in a fixed bed reactor. When the Pd nanoparticles are localized within the Beta zeolite crystals, the obtained Pd@Beta exhibits undetectable Pd leaching under the equivalent test, (4) achieving constant performance in the continuous test for 90 h. Cui et al. obtained a similar result in the Pd-catalyzed Suzuki cross-coupling reaction of iodobenzene and p-methoxyphenylboronic acid, achieving constant product yields in 15 runs during the recyclability evaluation of Pd fixed within the S-1 zeolite. (42) In this test, Pd/C usually exhibited poor recyclability because of the Pd leaching. (89) This feature makes the zeolite fixation a promising strategy for overcoming the leaching issue of the industrial Pd/C catalyst.
7. Conclusions and Perspectives
The concept of metal@zeolite has provided new perspectives in heterogeneous catalysis, compared with the supported metal nanoparticle catalysts. In this Account, we briefly summarize recent efforts for enhanced catalytic activities, selectivities, and durability by the fixation of metal nanoparticles within zeolite crystals, where the metal nanoparticles and zeolite are effectively synergized together. This strategy offers a new opportunity to broaden and deepen the shape-selective catalysis into the metal nanoparticle catalysis.
We believe that the preparation of metal@zeolite catalysts will continue to develop rapidly, in particular, with respect to the solution of the current problems existing in industrial catalysts such as metal nanoparticle stabilization and selectivity control. Considering the zeolite micropores, the metal@zeolite catalysts would display an important role in the transformation of small molecules, such as syngas, CO2, methane, ethane, and propane. These molecules are important in the shale gas and coal chemical industry, and their transformations usually require shape selectivity and sintering/coking-resistant metal nanostructures such as FischerTropsch synthesis and propane dehydrogenation. For example, it is generally known that FischerTropsch synthesis proceeds to CO dissociation and CC coupling on the metal/carbide surfaces. Therefore, we except to control the carbon chain growth by using the confined environment of zeolite micropores. Following this design, Ru nanoparticles were fixed within NaY zeolite crystals that show gasoline-range hydrocarbon (C5C11) selectivity at 64.3% in FischerTropsch synthesis. (90) The limited space of zeolite micropores efficiently hinders C12+ product formation in steadily outperforming the limitation of the AndersonSchulzFlory distribution (maximum of gasoline-ranged hydrocarbon selectivity at 45%).
The current observation of the metalzeolite synergism in the catalysis using metal@zeolite is dominantly focused on the geometrical effect of zeolite micropores. The electronic effect, which might occur between metal sites with the negatively charged framework, cations in the micropores, or the SiO interaction, should be considered in the catalyst design because such electronic zeolitemetal interactions could modify the metal sites to change the intrinsic catalytic behavior of active centers. The zeolite morphology, topological structure, micropore environment, and acidity/alkalinity could be rationally optimized for the catalysis. For example, the metal@zeolite catalysts might be deactivated by coke formation to block micropores, which requires the acceleration of rapid molecule diffusion by minimizing the zeolite crystal sizes and inducing hierarchical porosity into the zeolite sheath. Following this design, the synthesis and catalysis of hierarchical zeolite fixed metal nanoparticles should be a research field in the future. Secondary active sites, such as zeolite framework heteroatoms and supported metal species, could also be introduced to work together with the fixed metal nanoparticles, forming tandem catalysis in the zeolite crystals. Primary success was achieved in the tandem aldol condensation and the hydrogenation of furfural and acetone to form hydrogenated C8 products, and Pt@H-ZSM-5 exhibited the desired C8 product yield at 87%. In contrast, the normally supported catalyst failed to construct the tandem catalysis, exhibiting hydrogenation and decarbonylation of furfural as dominant reactions. (91) With the accumulation of knowledge in this field, we expect a rational design of metal@zeolite catalysts for the target reactions by composing a specific metal and zeolite with controlled structural parameters, achieving a breakthrough in catalysis. Under the guidance of this goal, it is certain that innovation in metal@zeolite catalysts will contribute to the future.
Author Information Corresponding Authors Liang Wang - Key Laboratory of Biomass Chemical Engineering of Ministry of Education, College of Chemical and Biological Engineering  and  Ningbo Research Institute, Zhejiang University, Ningbo 315100, China;  Zhejiang Provincial Key Laboratory of Advanced Chemical Engineering Manufacture Technology, College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5826-1866;  Email: liangwang@zju.edu.cn Feng-Shou Xiao - Key Laboratory of Biomass Chemical Engineering of Ministry of Education, College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China;  Ningbo Research Institute, Zhejiang University, Ningbo 315100, China;  Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310028, China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9744-3067;  Email: fsxiao@zju.edu.cn Authors Yeqing Wang - Key Laboratory of Biomass Chemical Engineering of Ministry of Education, College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China;  Ningbo Research Institute, Zhejiang University, Ningbo 315100, China;  Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310028, China Chengtao Wang - Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310028, China Lingxiang Wang - Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310028, China;  https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0665-8594 Notes The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Biographies Yeqing Wang received her B.S. (2012) and Ph.D. (2017) in the Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang University, China. Currently, she is a postdoctoral fellow in the research group of Prof. Feng-Shou Xiao at Zhejiang University. Her research interests include zeolites synthesized via sustainable routes and heterogeneous catalysis.
Chengtao Wang received his B.S. (2015) from the China University of Mining and Technology and his Ph.D. (2020) from Zhejiang University, China. Subsequently, he was selected into the 2020 Postdoctoral Innovation Talent Support Program for his postdoctoral work under the guidance of Prof. Feng-Shou Xiao. His research interest focuses on the selective transformation of syngas.
Lingxiang Wang received his B.S. in chemistry (2016) from Wuhan University. Currently, he is a Ph.D. candidate in the research group of Prof. Feng-Shou Xiao at Zhejiang University. His current research is mainly focused on metal/oxide catalysts for CO2 conversion.
Liang Wang received his B.S. in chemistry (2008) from Jilin University, China. He obtained his Ph.D. degree from the State Key Laboratory of Inorganic Synthesis and Preparative Chemistry, Jilin University in 2013. He then joined the Institute of Catalysis of Zhejiang University for postdoctoral work. Currently, he is a research professor in the College of Chemical and Biological Engineering at Zhejiang University. His research is focused on the nanoporous catalysts and transformation of low-carbon molecules.
Feng-Shou Xiao received his B.S. and M.S. from the Department of Chemistry, Jilin University, China. From there he moved to Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, China for Ph.D. research and then to the Catalysis Research Center, Hokkaido University, Japan, where he was involved in collaborative research between Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics & Jilin University, China with Hokkaido University, Japan. He was a Ph.D. student at Dalian for 1 year and at Sapporo for 2 years. In 1990, he was awarded his Ph.D. from Jilin University. After postdoctoral work at the University of California, Davis, CA, United States, he joined the faculty at Jilin University in 1994, where he became a full professor in 1996 and a distinguished professor in 2003. Since the end of 2009, Dr. Xiao as a distinguished professor moved to the Department of Chemistry, Zhejiang University. In April 2021, he moved to the College of Chemical and Biological Engineering, Zhejiang University. Currently, he is an associate editor of Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research, also serving as a secretary of the Asia-Pacific Association of Catalysis Societies. His research is mainly focused on zeolites, porous materials, and catalysis.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How does the hydroxyl anchoring method facilitate the controlled incorporation of active metal compounds in crystal materials, and what are its implications for enhancing metal-support interactions and improving the activity, selectivity, and stability of heterogeneous catalysts in solid-gas reactions?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 