<quotes>

[1] "For all V/MCM-41 catalysts used in this study, higher propene selectivity is achieved with N2O as compared with O2 at similar degrees of C3H8 conversion."
[2] "The catalytic activity is lower, however, in the presence of N2O as com- pared with O2 because of the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O relative to O2 for the re-oxidation of the reduced surface VOx sites during the ODP reaction."
[3] "There is no significant difference in propene selectivity between highly dispersed surface VOx species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used as an oxidant."
[4] "In contrast to highly dispersed VOx on the surface of MCM-41, the crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODP reaction in the presence of O2."
[5] "The positive effect of N2O is related to the inhibition of direct C3H8 oxidation and the consecutive oxidation of C3H6 to COx."
[6] "The inhibition is ascribed to reducing surface density (spatial separation) of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species, since N2O is a weaker oxidant for re-oxidation of reduced VOx species as compared with O2."
[7] "From a stoichiometric point of view of the ODP reaction, selective propene formation is favored over combustion reactions at lower surface densities."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Nitrous oxide (N2O) as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) has the advantage of achieving higher propene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen (O2) at similar degrees of propane conversion. This is due to the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O, which results in lower catalytic activity but inhibits the direct oxidation of propane and the consecutive oxidation of propene to carbon oxides (COx). The use of N2O as an oxidant spatially separates active surface lattice oxygen in vanadium oxide (VOx) species, favoring selective propene formation over combustion reactions. Both highly dispersed surface VOx species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles exhibit similar propene selectivity when N2O is used as an oxidant. However, in the presence of O2, crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODHP reaction. The critical challenge associated with catalyst deactivation and stability is that N2O re-oxidizes reduced VOx sites more slowly than O2, leading to a lower concentration of active lattice oxygen. Strategies to address this limitation could include developing catalysts with higher dispersion of reducible metal oxides on inert supports, which are easily reduced by hydrocarbons rather than re-oxidized by the oxidant. This would spatially isolate active lattice oxygen species, favoring selective oxidation over combustion reactions. Additionally, research could focus on improving the stability and re-oxidation kinetics of VOx species in the presence of N2O to enhance catalyst performance.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）反应中，使用一氧化二氮（N2O）作为氧化剂与使用氧气（O2）相比，在相似的丙烷转化率下，可以获得更高的丙烯选择性。这是由于N2O的氧化势较弱，导致催化活性较低，但抑制了丙烷的直接氧化和丙烯连续氧化为一氧化碳和二氧化碳（COx）。使用N2O作为氧化剂，可以降低表面VOx物种中活性表面晶格氧的表面密度（空间分离），从而有利于选择性丙烯的形成，而不是燃烧反应。当使用N2O作为氧化剂时，无论是高度分散的表面VOx物种还是V2O5纳米颗粒，它们的丙烯选择性没有显著差异。然而，在O2存在下，V2O5纳米颗粒对ODHP反应没有选择性。与催化剂失活和稳定性相关的关键挑战是，N2O比O2更慢地重新氧化还原的VOx位点，导致活性晶格氧的浓度较低。为了解决这一限制，可以开发在惰性载体上具有更高分散性的可还原金属氧化物的催化剂，这些氧化物容易被烃类还原，而不是被氧化剂重新氧化。这将空间隔离活性晶格氧物种，有利于选择性氧化，而不是燃烧反应。此外，研究可以集中在提高N2O存在下VOx物种的稳定性和重新氧化动力学，以增强催化剂性能。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
