<quotes>

[1] "For all V/MCM-41 catalysts used in this study, higher propene selectivity is achieved with N2O as compared with O2 at similar degrees of C3H8 conversion."
[2] "The catalytic activity is lower, however, in the presence of N2O as com- pared with O2 because of the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O relative to O2 for the re-oxidation of the reduced surface VOx sites during the ODP reaction."
[3] "There is no significant difference in propene selectivity between highly dispersed surface VOx species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used as an oxidant."
[4] "In contrast to highly dispersed VOx on the surface of MCM-41, the crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODP reaction in the presence of O2."
[5] "The positive effect of N2O is related to the inhibition of direct C3H8 oxidation and the consecutive oxidation of C3H6 to COx."
[6] "The inhibition is ascribed to reducing surface density (spatial separation) of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species, since N2O is a weaker oxidant for re-oxidation of reduced VOx species as compared with O2."
[7] "From a stoichiometric point of view of the ODP reaction, selective propene formation is favored over combustion reactions at lower surface densities."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Nitrous oxide (N2O) has been found to be advantageous as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) due to its ability to achieve higher propene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen (O2) at similar degrees of propane conversion. This is attributed to the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O, which results in a lower re-oxidation rate of the reduced surface vanadium oxide (VOx) species during the reaction. The use of N2O as an oxidant leads to a reduction in the surface density of active lattice oxygen in VOx species, promoting spatial separation of the active sites and inhibiting the direct oxidation of propane and the consecutive oxidation of propene to carbon oxides. This effect is particularly beneficial for catalysts containing highly dispersed surface VOx species, as there is no significant difference in propene selectivity between these species and crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles when N2O is used. However, in the presence of O2, crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODHP reaction. The use of N2O as an oxidant can potentially address the limitations associated with catalyst deactivation and stability by promoting selective propene formation over combustion reactions at lower surface densities.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.一氧化二氮(N2O)已被发现作为氧化脱氢丙烷(ODHP)的氧化剂具有优势,因为它能够在相似的丙烷转化率下实现比氧气(O2)更高的丙烯选择性。这归因于N2O较弱的氧化电位,导致反应过程中表面钒氧化物(VOx)还原物种的再氧化速率降低。N2O作为氧化剂的使用导致VOx物种中活性晶格氧的表面密度降低,促进了活性位点的空间分离,抑制了丙烷的直接氧化和丙烯连续氧化为碳氧化物。这种效应对于含有高度分散表面VOx物种的催化剂尤其有益,因为当使用N2O时,这些物种与V2O5纳米粒子之间的丙烯选择性没有显著差异。然而,在O2的存在下,V2O5纳米粒子对ODHP反应没有选择性。N2O作为氧化剂的使用可以通过在较低的表面密度下促进丙烯的有选择性形成而不是燃烧反应,来潜在地解决与催化剂失活和稳定性相关的限制。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
