<quotes>

[1] "For all V/MCM-41 catalysts used in this study, higher propene selectivity is achieved with N2O as compared with O2 at similar degrees of C3H8 conversion."
[2] "The catalytic activity is lower, however, in the presence of N2O as com- pared with O2 because of the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O relative to O2 for the re-oxidation of the reduced surface VOx sites during the ODP reaction."
[3] "In contrast to highly dispersed VOx on the surface of MCM-41, the crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODP reaction in the presence of O2."
[4] "The positive effect of N2O is related to the inhibition of direct C3H8 oxidation and the consecutive oxidation of C3H6 to COx."
[5] "The inhibition is ascribed to reducing surface density (spatial separation) of active surface lattice oxygen in VOx species, since N2O is a weaker oxidant for re-oxidation of reduced VOx species as compared with O2."
[6] "From a stoichiometric point of view of the ODP reaction, selective propene formation is favored over combustion reactions at lower surface densities."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.N2O as an oxidant in the oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) has been found to offer higher propene selectivity compared to molecular oxygen (O2) at similar degrees of propane conversion. This is attributed to the weaker oxidizing potential of N2O, which inhibits the direct oxidation of propane and the consecutive oxidation of propene to carbon oxides (COx). The use of N2O results in a lower surface density of active lattice oxygen in vanadia (VOx) species on the catalyst surface, promoting selective propene formation over combustion reactions. Highly dispersed VOx species on the surface of MCM-41 mesoporous silica show improved selectivity with N2O, whereas crystalline V2O5 nanoparticles are not selective for the ODHP reaction in the presence of O2. The challenges associated with catalyst deactivation and stability in N2O-ODHP include the lower catalytic activity due to the slower re-oxidation of reduced VOx sites by N2O compared to O2. Strategies to address these limitations could involve the development of more stable and active catalysts with optimized VOx species distribution and enhanced re-oxidation kinetics, as well as the exploration of alternative oxidants or process conditions that maintain high propene selectivity while improving catalyst stability and activity.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在丙烷氧化脱氢（ODHP）反应中，使用N2O作为氧化剂与使用分子氧（O2）相比，在相似的丙烷转化率下，N2O可以实现更高的丙烯选择性。这归因于N2O较弱的氧化势，它抑制了丙烷的直接氧化和丙烯连续氧化为碳氧化物（COx）。使用N2O导致在催化剂表面的钒氧化物（VOx）物种上活性晶格氧的表面密度降低，从而促进丙烯的形成，而不是燃烧反应。在MCM-41介孔二氧化硅的表面，高度分散的VOx物种在N2O存在下显示出改善的选择性，而V2O5纳米颗粒在O2存在下对ODHP反应没有选择性。N2O-ODHP中催化剂失活和稳定性的挑战包括由于N2O与O2相比，还原VOx位点的再氧化速率较慢，导致催化活性较低。解决这些限制的策略可能涉及开发更稳定和活性更高的催化剂，优化VOx物种的分布，增强再氧化动力学，以及探索保持高丙烯选择性的同时提高催化剂稳定性和活性的替代氧化剂或工艺条件。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
