This article was downloaded by: [Harvard College]
On: 18 August 2013, At: 06:34
Publisher: Taylor & Francis
Informa Ltd Registered in England and Wales Registered Number: 1072954 Registered office:
Mortimer House, 37-41 Mortimer Street, London W1T 3JH, UK
Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering
Publication details, including instructions for authors and subscription
information:
http://www.tandfonline.com/loi/lctr20
Propane Aromatization over HZSM‐5 and Ga/
HZSM‐5 Catalysts
Aditya Bhan a & W. Nicholas Delgass b
a Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA
b School of Chemical Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN,
USA
Published online: 04 Feb 2008.
To cite this article: Aditya Bhan & W. Nicholas Delgass (2008) Propane Aromatization over
HZSM‐5 and Ga/HZSM‐5 Catalysts, Catalysis Reviews: Science and Engineering, 50:1, 19-151, DOI:
10.1080/01614940701804745
To link to this article:  http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01614940701804745
PLEASE SCROLL DOWN FOR ARTICLE
Taylor & Francis makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of all the information (the “Content”)
contained in the publications on our platform. However, Taylor & Francis, our agents, and our
licensors make no representations or warranties whatsoever as to the accuracy, completeness, or
suitability for any purpose of the Content. Any opinions and views expressed in this publication
are the opinions and views of the authors, and are not the views of or endorsed by Taylor &
Francis. The accuracy of the Content should not be relied upon and should be independently
verified with primary sources of information. Taylor and Francis shall not be liable for any
losses, actions, claims, proceedings, demands, costs, expenses, damages, and other liabilities
whatsoever or howsoever caused arising directly or indirectly in connection with, in relation to or
arising out of the use of the Content.
This article may be used for research, teaching, and private study purposes. Any substantial
or systematic reproduction, redistribution, reselling, loan, sub-licensing, systematic supply, or
distribution in any form to anyone is expressly forbidden. Terms & Conditions of access and use
can be found at http://www.tandfonline.com/page/terms-and-conditions
Propane Aromatization over
HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5
Catalysts
Aditya Bhan1 and W. Nicholas Delgass2
1Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science, University of Minnesota,
Minneapolis, MN, USA
2School of Chemical Engineering, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, USA
The selective transformation of light alkanes to aromatics that are more valuable and
versatile feedstocks for the chemical industry is one of the major challenges of catalytic
chemistry. The complexity of the aromatization chemistry makes it difﬁcult to unravel
reaction mechanisms and, mechanistic information is largely developed from observed
product distributions. This article reviews the current mechanistic understanding for
the conversion of propane to aromatic compounds over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 cata-
lysts based on experimental as well as theoretical studies.
Following a general discussion of acidity and conﬁnement effects in these systems,
this review focuses on understanding speciﬁc reactions occurring on Brønsted acid sites
in HZSM-5. Mechanistic details available from Density Functional Theory (DFT) calcu-
lations, as well as kinetic modeling efforts for various complex hydrocarbon systems are
critically reviewed. A detailed, tabulated review of the literature compares the catalytic
performance of gallium modiﬁed ZSM-5 catalysts and subsequently the promotional
effect of gallium as an additive is critically discussed in terms of the nature of the
active sites, as well as the new reaction pathways introduced by gallium addition.
Keywords
Alkane Activation, Aromatization, Hydrocarbon Reactions on Zeolites,
Kinetic Modeling, Computational Catalysis
1.
INTRODUCTION
Conversion technologies that transform light hydrocarbons to higher molecu-
lar weight liquid products represent an attractive methodology for value
addition to the LPG cut from petroleum feedstocks. This discussion focuses
Received 11 January 2007; accepted 28 April 2007.
Address correspondence to Aditya Bhan, Department of Chemical Engineering and
Materials Science, University of Minnesota, 421 Washington Avenue SE, Minneapolis,
MN 55455, USA. E-mail: abhan@umn.edu
Catalysis Reviews, 50:19–151, 2008
Copyright # Taylor & Francis Group, LLC
ISSN: 0161-4940 print 1520-5703 online
DOI: 10.1080/01614940701804745
19
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
on production of benzene, toluene, and xylene (BTX) from propane, a process
that has inspired widespread interest from the industrial community (1).
Industrial processes developed for this application include:
i.
the M-2 forming process developed by Mobil with HZSM-5 as a catalyst
using a variety of feedstocks such as pyrolysis gasoline, unsaturated
gases from catalytic cracking of parafﬁnic napthas, and LPG (2);
ii.
the Cyclar process developed by BP and UOP for converting LPG into
aromatic products using a gallium-doped zeolite based catalyst formu-
lation and a continuous catalyst regeneration scheme; and
iii.
the Aroforming process developed by IFP and SALUTEC using a shape
selective zeolite doped with metal oxides designed to aromatize a large
range of aliphatic hydrocarbons, either LPGs or light napthas. This
process is based on multiple ﬁxed bed isothermal tubular reactors, some
of which are run in reaction mode, while the others are under
regeneration.
The drawback of these processes is the production of large amounts of fuel
gas by cracking. In general, zeolites with MFI pore structure are used due to
their high resistance to deactivation with metal components added to
enhance the dehydrogenation function; gallium has emerged as the most prom-
ising metal additive for this reaction system.
The literature of zeolite-based solid acid catalysts is extensive due to their
use in more than 110 commercial processes employed in the petrochemical
industry (3). We present a brief discussion of topics concerning acidity, adsorp-
tion phenomena, conﬁnement effects, and the nature of surface species formed
on the catalyst surface as a background for the discussion on light alkane aro-
matization on ZSM-5 based formulations. This paper focuses on reviewing the
literature concerning aromatization of light alkanes on HZSM-5 and gallium-
modiﬁed ZSM-5 catalysts.
2.
BACKGROUND
Our brief discussion focuses on high silica zeolites with an emphasis on ZSM-5
catalysts and only considers Brønsted acid sites. The reader is referred to excel-
lent reviews on organic reactions over zeolites (3), acid function in zeolites (4),
inorganic solid acids (5), methods for characterizing zeolite acidity (6), theoreti-
cal quantum chemical studies of hydrocarbon reactions over zeolite catalysts,
(7) and more recent challenges for zeolite chemistry (8) for a much broader dis-
cussion on zeolitic materials.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
20
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
2.1.
Inﬂuence of Structural Effects and Chemical
Composition on Acidity
Zeolite structures containing only SiO2 tetrahedra would be electrically
neutral and hence, contain no acidity. Brønsted acid sites are generated
when Si4þ is isomorphically substituted by a trivalent cation, for example by
Al3þ in zeolites. The negative charge that is created in the lattice is compen-
sated by a proton attached to one of the lattice oxygen atoms bridging to the
aluminum atom. The resulting hydroxyl group is responsible for Brønsted
acidity of zeolites.
ZSM-5 is classiﬁed as a medium-pore zeolite with inter-connected 10-
membered straight and sinusoidal pores that result in a three-dimensional
pore network. The straight channel has dimensions of 5.3 A
˚ X 5.6 A
˚ , while
the sinusoidal channel has dimensions of 5.1 A
˚ X 5.6 A
˚ . The unit cell of ZSM-
5 consists of 96 T sites (tetrahedrally coordinated framework Al or Si) 12 of
which are crystallographically inequivalent. The unit cell formula for HZSM-
5 is Hn[AlnSi96-nO192]16H2O with n , 27. The orthorhombic structure of
the zeolite (space group Pnma) has unit cell dimensions of a ¼ 20.1 A
˚ ,
b ¼ 19.9 A
˚ , and c ¼ 13.4 A
˚ . Our discussion of structural effects on zeolite
acidity ﬁrst details theoretical investigations that address this issue followed
by experimental investigations on high-silica materials.
Several groups have used computational methods to determine the inﬂu-
ence of structural effects such as Al-O (T-O) distances and bond angles in the
Al-OH-Si (T-O-T) group on the acidity of the hydroxyl group. Acidity differ-
ences in these studies are generally characterized in terms of deprotonation
energy (DPE) or the proton afﬁnity (PA). Chatterjee et al. (9) investigated
the effect of isomorphous substitution of various trivalent cations (B, Ga, Al,
and Fe) using a 5 T cluster terminated with OH bonds. Aluminum substitution
was calculated to result in the highest acid strength and the polarizability
order of the cations Al . Ga . Fe.B was observed to match up with the cal-
culated deprotonation energies. Similar conclusions were also stated by
Strodel et al. (10).
O’Malley and Dwyer (11) varied the T-O-T angle for a 2T cluster and using
Hartree-Fock (HF/3-21G) ab initio methods concluded that increasing the T-O-
T angle led to a decrease in the O-H bond stretching frequency and a corre-
sponding decrease in the ionicity of the OH bond, and, hence its acidity.
Alvarado-Swaisgood et al. (12) postulate that since Al-O bond lengths are
longer than the corresponding Si-O bond lengths, the Al is likely to be sited
at those T-sites where the T-O bond length is longest. Based on calculations
(HF/double-z basis sets) done for Al substitution (in absence of a counterion)
into a T(OH)4 monomeric cluster for each of the 12 crystallographic T-sites in
MFI, the T6, T12, and T9 sites were found to be the most favorable sites
while the T3 site was found to be the least favorable. The least favorable and
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
21
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
most favorable sites only differed by 13.8 kJ/mol in replacement energy
suggesting an almost statistical distribution of aluminum in HZSM-5. On
similar lines, Bell and coworkers (13) also calculated several tetrahedral
sites to be energetically comparable with regard to Al siting. These researchers
also emphasize the effects of structural relaxation upon Al substitution.
Modeling Al siting in HZSM-5 by defect energy minimization and describing
two-body interactions by the Buckingham exp-6 potential function, and the
O-Si-O and O-Al-O angle bending by a harmonic dependence, Schro
¨der et al.
(14) calculate small energy differences between the various lattice sites
suggesting little deviation from a random distribution of Al over the MFI fra-
mework sites. Grau-Crespo et al. (15) have employed a strategy similar to
the one outlined by Schro
¨der, and based on Al substitution in each of the 24
non-equivalent crystallographic sites in ZSM-5 (the monoclinic structure of
ZSM-5 at higher temperatures has lower symmetry than the orthorhombic
structure and hence has 24 T sites) in absence of counterions have found
a range of 66.9 kJ/mol for the 24 T sites. Deprotonation energies are
typically 1100 kJ/mol, implying that deprotonation reactions are typically
concerted; hence, the lack of counterions in this study may inﬂuence the
energy range for Al substitution calculated by these authors. The protonation
of the structure was also studied by these authors and was modeled as two
random events: the ﬁrst being the siting of the Al and the second being the
binding of the proton to one of the four non-equivalent oxygen atoms around
the Al atom. In agreement with Redondo and Hay. (16), they conclude that
acid sites with protons located in the large pores of the zeolite are favored.
Redondo and Hay (16) included counterion and relaxation effects within a
semi-empirical MNDO approach and concluded that a direct relationship
between the experimental T-O-T angle and the proton afﬁnity existed with
higher proton afﬁnity corresponding to smaller T-O-T angles. Chatterjee
et al. (17) have attempted to derive electronic properties such as density of
states, energy of the frontier molecular orbitals and contributions from differ-
ent atomic orbitals in ZSM-5 using monomer [T(OH)4], dimer [(OH)3-T-O-T-
(OH)3] and pentamer [T-O4 (T(OH)3)4] cluster models. They also conclude
that longer T-O and smaller T-O-T bond angles are preferred for aluminum sub-
stitution. In addition, the T-O-T-O dihedral angle was also proposed to play a
signiﬁcant role in the energetics as it was postulated to determine the orien-
tation of adjacent TO4 groups relative to the central TO4 group. Kramer and
van Santen (18) have commented on the similar lattice stability of 4-, 5-, and
6-membered rings and the very shallow Si-O-Si potential energy surface that
results in easy deformation of the lattice and is a key to lattice stability.
Using force ﬁeld calculations, they correlate the proton afﬁnity with the
length of the T-O bond involved with the acidic hydroxyl upon substitution of
lattice Si by Al. The larger the T-T’ distance between the T atoms concerned,
the stronger the hydroxyl bond; implying that the mismatch between the
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
22
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
effective size of the [Si-O(H)-Al] system and the original [Si-O-Si] volume is the
main parameter controlling the deprotonation energy.
Cook et al. (19) compared results from isolated clusters and clusters
embedded in a Madelung ﬁeld generated by the zeolite framework to
examine the effects of cluster termination. A 5T cluster terminated with
hydrogen atoms positioned along the Si-O crystallographic directions at a
distance of 1 A
˚ was used with the Ewald summation considered to be due to
a completely siliceous framework. No signiﬁcant structural differences were
found upon inclusion of the Madelung ﬁeld, however, signiﬁcant differences
in the electronic structure were noted. The proton was signiﬁcantly depleted
of charge (0.33e compared to 0.5e) upon inclusion of the Madelung ﬁeld and
this was attributed as an artifact of the calculation method. The acidic
moiety was characterized as a soft acid characterized by a diffuse electron
density distribution by employing the absolute electronegativity x and
absolute hardness (20, 21) as deﬁned by Parr and coworkers. Brand and co-
workers (22, 23) have also shown signiﬁcant variation in the proton afﬁnity
and OH stretching frequency as a function of cluster size, cluster shape, and
cluster termination. In agreement with other studies discussed above, the
proton afﬁnity was calculated to be in the range 1200–1300 kJ/mol with the
best estimate for the O(24) site being 1234 kJ/mol using the HF/6-31G level
of theory.
In a series of ab initio studies, Eichler et al. (24), Brandle and Sauer (25),
and Sauer and Sierka (26), have used combined quantum mechanics and
interatomic potential function (QM/Pot) methods aimed at addressing short-
comings of the cluster model. Long range interactions were included at the
level of the interatomic potential function with the parameters for the potential
function being derived from ab initio calculations. The deprotonation energy of
HZSM-5 was calculated to be 1171 kJ/mol and was observed to be stable within
a few kJ/mol with increasing cluster size. In contrast to cluster based studies
mentioned above, no correlation was found between T-O-T bond angles or 1H
NMR chemical shifts and heats of deprotonation. Calculated energies of NH3
adsorption (formation of NH4
þ) did not indicate the same acidity sequence as
the energies of deprotonation when comparing different zeolite framework
structures (FAU, CHA, MOR, and MFI). The different order was attributed
to speciﬁc interaction of the NH4
þ with the negatively charged oxygen atoms
of the zeolite framework.
The relationship between the T-O-T angle and the proton afﬁnity can be
analyzed with simple chemical arguments as follows. Assuming the Brønsted
acid proton lies in the plane of the Si-O-Al bond, the three pairs of electrons
involved in the O-H, Al-O, and Si-O bonds are expected to form 1208 angles.
Thus, the protonated oxygen atom has a tendency to have an equilibrium
bond angle of 1208 subject to lattice constraints. In an X-ray diffraction exper-
iment typically the Si-O-Si bond angle is observed given the high silicon to
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
23
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
aluminum ratio in the materials. A large amount of strain is expected to be
introduced into the zeolite lattice upon protonation and the proton afﬁnity is
expected to be smaller when the initial T-O-T angle, before the introduction
of the aluminum and the compensating proton, is large. This argument
however, is contradicted by the QM/Pot studies by Sauer and coworkers for
the MFI framework. In addition, some assumptions of the model such as a
planar Al-O(H)-Si conﬁguration are known to be incorrect.
Another aspect of these computational studies rarely discussed in the lit-
erature is the high deprotonation energy value of approximately 1250 kJ/
mol evaluated. DFT studies (19, 27) have shown that the O-H bond for the
Brønsted acid site has signiﬁcant covalent character with the charge on the
hydrogen atom being approximately 0.5 e. The proton transfer process is typi-
cally accompanied by simultaneous bond formation on one of the four lattice
oxygen atoms linked to the aluminum atom. Hence, the calculation of proton
afﬁnity values and hence acid strength on the basis of deprotonation of
zeolite cluster models which involves signiﬁcant charge transfer and includes
lattice relaxation upon removal of the proton may not be representative of
proton transfer acid catalyzed reactions.
Several experimental studies have also addressed zeolite acidity; our dis-
cussion focuses on HZSM-5. Early work in alkane cracking over low-silica fau-
jasites, like H-Y concluded that catalytic activity increased as aluminum was
removed from the lattice. Based on the following discussion, it will become
apparent, however, that this relationship is not valid for high silica materials
like HZSM-5.
Olson et al. (28), Haag et al. (29), Haag et al. (30), and Olson et al. (31)
investigated the chemical and physical properties of ZSM-5 materials with
alumina content varied over several orders of magnitude. Physical properties
such as the X-ray diffraction pattern, pore size and volume, framework
density and refractive index were found to be independent of the SiO2:Al2O3
ratio while the cesium exchange capacity, the catalytic activity probed by the
cracking of n-hexane and the water adsorption capacity were found to be a
linear function of Al content even over a 400-fold change in Al content.
Barthomeuf (32) studied the dependence of zeolite acidity on structure and
chemical environment by incorporating the information about the speciﬁc
lattice in the topological density (TD2-5). Taking into consideration the non-
equivalent T sites, a weighted mean number of tetrahedra was deﬁned and
divided by the maximum number of tetrahedra in a four-connected net of T
atoms by considering all the tetrahedra included between the second and
ﬁfth layer around a T site. The aluminum topological density, deﬁned as the
product of the TD2–5 and the aluminum molar fraction, was used to evaluate
the density of AlO4
2 in the ensemble of tetrahedra comprising the second to
ﬁfth layer surrounding a T site. It was noted that for Si/Al 9.5 for HZSM-5
the acidity is constant based on a TDAl ¼ 2.65  1022. At this point all the
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
24
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
acid sites are supposed to be far enough apart that they do not interact with
each other to decrease their efﬁciency and their acid strength. Since TDAl inte-
grates chemical and topological effects, this limit is considered to be applicable
for any zeolite structure. In a combined experimental and theoretical study to
interpret NH3-TPD results in microporous zeolitic materials in light of conﬁne-
ment effects (see Section 3.3), Hunger et al. (33) ﬁnd a heterogeneity of
only 7 kJ/mol for all the OH groups in the MFI and FER frameworks. In
agreement with Barthomeuf (32) the above study also states that down to
TDAl ¼ 2.65  1022, the mean acid strength increases linearly and is nearly
constant for higher values of TDAl.
Sharma and coworkers (34) have characterized the acidity of HZSM-5
using microcalorimetry and temperature-programmed desorption (TPD). The
plot of differential enthalpy change upon ammonia adsorption versus
coverage was dominated by a large plateau of nearly constant differential
enthalpy change (DHads ¼ 2150 kJ/mol), indicative of similar acid strength
across all sites. Calorimetric studies, however, do not probe the nature of the
binding sites speciﬁcally and differential heats measured, in general, incorpor-
ate local structural effects of the binding site, as well as any conﬁnement
characteristics that may arise due to the nature and size of the base
molecule employed (see Section 2.3).
TPD of ammonia and pyridine is probably the most widely used method for
characterizing acidity in zeolites. Several dimensionless groups have been
described by Gorte (35) and Gorte and Demmin (36) to assess re-adsorption
and transport effects in desorption from catalyst beds and these must be
accounted for when considering TPD as a characterization technique. In
their study, Sharma and coworkers (34) found ammonia TPD not to be
limited by re-adsorption, while pyridine desorption from HZSM-5 was found
to be limited by molecular diffusion in the zeolite crystallites and hence, the
authors suggest that pyridine is a poor choice as a probe molecule for assess-
ment of acid strength by TPD. This NH3-TPD study also provides evidence
for a relatively homogeneous acid-strength distribution in ZSM-5.
Investigators [6, 37–42] have used the 13C chemical shift of acetone as well
as reactive elimination of isopropylamine as probes for Brønsted acidity in
zeolites. For a stoichiometry less than 1:1, the 13C chemical shift exhibited
an anisotropy similar to that of solid acetone indicating localization within
the zeolite pores due to the presence of the Brønsted acid site, while at
coverages even slightly greater than one the entire line shape collapsed to
a
single
narrow
line
indicating
rapid
exchange
between
physisorbed
acetone and the localized acetone at the Brønsted acid sites. To a ﬁrst app-
roximation, the measured chemical shifts were taken to be indicative of an
intrinsic acidity while the anisotropic lineshapes modulated by the localized
molecular reorientations at the Brønsted acid site provided insight into the
reorientation barriers within molecular sieves. The narrow linewidth of the
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
25
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
proton-decoupled 13C MAS NMR spectra at low temperatures indicated that
the acid sites must be relatively homogeneous in HZSM-5. Reactive elimination
studies (for example the unimolecular decomposition of adsorbed isopropyla-
mine to form propene and ammonia) also showed stoichiometric behavior
with the number of Al sites and any adsorbate in excess of this ratio was
found to desorb at much lower temperatures.
Although the above experimental studies strongly suggest dilute, isolated
sites that have the same acidity, IR investigations of weakly adsorbed mol-
ecules in HZSM-5 have suggested heterogeneity of OH groups in the H-MFI
framework (43, 44). In summary, unlike theoretical methods discussed
earlier in this section, experimental methods provide sample averaged
measures of acidity. Although most of the experimental studies suggest
uniform sites in HZSM-5, these results would also be consistent with a distri-
bution of sites of different activity provided the distribution is largely
unchanged for all aluminum concentrations in the sample.
2.2.
Adsorption Phenomena
As discussed by Corma (5), a reactant molecule that diffuses into the zeolite
channel is subject to a series of interactions. For high silica materials mainly
dispersive forces are present and these hydrophobic materials preferentially
adsorb non-polar organic compounds. In general, a number of unique phenom-
ena such as inverse shape selectivity (45) pertaining to the preferential adsorp-
tion of bulkier versus less bulky molecules within microporous solids, pore
mouth and key-lock selectivity (46) pertaining to interaction of normal and
branched alkanes with unidimensional medium pore zeolites, window effect
and commensurate freezing of alkanes (47, 48) pertaining to variations in the
diffusivity and type of sorption isotherm of n-alkanes with increasing carbon
number and the nest effect (49) wherein a molecule and its direct environment
tend reciprocally to optimize their van der Waals interaction are indicative of
preferential adsorption behavior. Our discussion focuses on developing the
crucial role of adsorption behavior in these systems with a particular
emphasis on alkane adsorption and MFI based materials.
For high silica materials, Stach et al. (50) report that the heat of adsorption
of n-parafﬁns in mesoporous materials is similar to the heat of condensation,
while for microporous materials, when the pore dimensions become compar-
able to the critical diameter of the molecules adsorbed, the zero coverage
heat of adsorption increases exponentially with decreasing mean pore
diameter. Stach and coworkers (51) and Janchen et al, (52) have also studied
the correlation between the initial heats of adsorption and structural par-
ameters as well as chemical composition of the microporous material using
calorimetry. The heats of adsorption of n-parafﬁns increased linearly with
aluminum content of the molecular sieve, and a linear relationship between
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
26
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
the adsorption enthalpy and the average effective electronegativity, calculated
based on the tendency of an atom to attract electrons (in a molecule), and the
electronegativity equalization formalism (53), was also observed. For non-
polar molecules the initial adsorption heat was found to increase with increas-
ing density of T-atoms which also corresponds to decreasing effective
electronegativity.
Savitz et al. (54) measured isosteric heats and adsorption isotherms of
three alkanes (methane, ethane, propane) on a series of six high-silica
zeolites (TON, MTW, UTD-1, MFI, FER, FAU). Amongst the one-dimensional
zeolite structures TON, MTW, and UTD-1, a decrease in the heat of adsorption
with increasing pore size was observed for all alkanes. For all systems investi-
gated, the van der Waals interactions were evaluated to dominate the electro-
static
interactions
for
non-polar
parafﬁnic
molecules.
Speciﬁcally,
an
incremental heat of adsorption of 10 kJ/mol per carbon number was
observed for MFI. A Lennard-Jones 12-6 potential for the adsorbate molecule
interacting with a single layer of oxygen atoms representing the pore walls
of the lattice was found to give adsorption enthalpy values in good agreement
with experiment.
Investigators (55, 56) have obtained Henry’s Law constants for alkanes
under high temperature and low pressure conditions over various different
zeolite structures. On all zeolites the Henry constants were observed to
increase exponentially with the alkane chain length. Smaller pore dimensions
resulted in an increase in the adsorption enthalpy accompanied by a high loss
in entropy of the molecule upon adsorption. A linear increase in DH0 and DS0
with carbon number and hence, a compensation effect, was observed. On
HMFI, the Henry constants of isoalkanes were systematically lower than
those for n-alkanes of the same carbon number, the difference becoming
larger with increasing degree of branching, highlighting the steric effects for
van der Waals interactions between the zeolite and the alkane molecule.
Eder and Lercher (57) have done a comparative study on alkane sorption
on siliceous and aluminophosphate molecular sieves by means of gravimetry
and calorimetry measurements. The identical sorption enthalpies of isostruc-
tural AlPO-5 and SSZ-24 indicates that chemical composition for neutral
samples has a negligible impact on the energetics of alkane sorption. With
decreasing pore diameter and increasing framework density the sorption
enthalpy was found to increase. An additional role of the pore shape was also
observed, however. High sorption enthalpies of n-alkanes on AlPO-11 indicated
an excellent ﬁt between the alkanes and the elliptical pores of the zeolite. This
explanation is in line with the nest effect as proposed by Derouane (49).
Derouane and coworkers (58–60) have derived a van der Waals model for
molecule-curved surface interactions in microporous solids (see Section 2.3.)
that considers the zeolite as an isotropic dielectric medium interacting with a
point isotropic molecule in a spherical cavity. The van der Waals energy
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
27
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
derived based on the dynamic polarizability of the reactant molecule and the
extrinsic surface curvature was observed to increase monotonically with
decreasing pore size and eventually reach a value eight times that of the equiv-
alent ﬂat surface. An optimum value of 2/3 for the ratio of the sorption distance
from the ideal point molecule to the pore wall and the effective spherical pore
radius was calculated. These studies suggest that sorbed molecules will have a
strong tendency to stick to the pore wall, and that the interaction between the
physisorbed molecule and the zeolite will be stabilized as the ﬁt between the
adsorbate and the pore geometry improves.
Bates et al. (61) have investigated the pore size dependence of n-alkane
(C4-C10) adsorption in all silica zeolites (MFI, MOR, FAU, RHO, LTA, and
FER) using conﬁgurational-bias Monte Carlo (CBMC) simulations. The CH3
and CH2 groups of the alkanes were treated as single interaction centers and
the interaction between the oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice and the CHn
groups was modeled by a 12-6 Lennard-Jones potential. For all zeolites
studied, the heat of adsorption was found to increase linearly with alkane
chain length. The heat of adsorption increased as the pore diameter decreased
from 7.4 A
˚ to 5 A
˚ , while for smaller pores the heat of adsorption was predicted
to decrease because alkanes in smaller-pore materials preferentially adsorbed
in a localized, highly coiled state in the largest void volume of the structure,
and hence, sample a ‘larger’ pore diameter than that generally used to charac-
terize the material.
In a series of publications, researchers (62–66) have addressed the sorption
of alkanes on various acidic zeolites as studied by gravimetry, calorimetry, and
infrared spectroscopy; we focus on their work regarding HZSM-5. The intensity
of the 3610 cm21 band attributed to Brønsted acid sites (in the infrared
spectrum) was observed to decrease upon increasing alkane partial pressure
(most studies were done in the pressure range of 1023 to 3 mbar) and to com-
pletely disappear at higher alkane partial pressures indicating that all
Brønsted acid sites interacted with physisorbed alkanes. The interaction
between the apolar alkane and the zeolite hydroxyl group was postulated to
occur via dipole-induced hydrogen bonding and was noted to contribute  10
kJ/mol to the differential heat of adsorption, independent of the carbon
number of the alkane. A signiﬁcant difference between n- and iso-parafﬁns
was the 12 kJ/mol lower value for the heat of sorption observed for the corre-
sponding iso-parafﬁns indicating that the heat of adsorption depends subtly on
the ﬁt between the size of the alkane molecule and the size of the zeolite pores.
A compensation effect between the enthalpy and the entropy of sorption was
found for n-alkanes resulting in the higher heat of adsorption due to the
direct alkane-acid site interaction being partly compensated by higher loss in
entropy of the molecule upon adsorption. The speciﬁc contribution due to
acid sites attributed to induced polarization in alkanes was found to be 6 kJ/
mol for FAU compared to 10 kJ/mol for MFI. The lower value for FAU was
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
28
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
attributed to localized interaction of the physisorbed alkane molecule in FAU
such that the alkane molecule is unable to alter its conﬁguration to
maximize van der Waals interactions with the remaining zeolite structure.
An increase in adsorption enthalpy of 10.1 kJ/mol per added -CH2–group
was also observed by Arik et al. (67) based on their pulse chromatographic
studies on ZSM-5 with Si/Al ratios ranging from 12 to 400. Ab initio and
DFT based calculations have also conﬁrmed the magnitude of the speciﬁc inter-
action induced by the Brønsted acid site (27, 68).
Recent work from Truitt et al. (69) has also evidenced the formation of a
speciﬁc adsorption complex between an alkane and Brønsted acid sites in
zeolites based on (i) loading dependent chemical shift for 1H NMR upon inter-
action of isobutane with Brønsted acid sites in HZSM-5, and (ii) 1H ! 13C CP/
MAS NMR studies following adsorption of isobutane-d10 that only showed a
signal for 13C isobutane upon 1H excitation in the cross polarization sequence.
Conﬁgurational-bias Monte Carlo (CBMC) simulations suggest a particu-
lar phase transition for C6 and C7 alkanes in silicalite due to the interplay
between the length of the sinusoidal channels and the length of the alkane
(47, 48, 61). Because of the size match between hexane and the dimensions
of the sinusoidal channel in silicalite, these channels are packed, with little
freedom of movement for the hexane molecules, before the straight channels
are packed at high loadings. The molecules in the zigzag channels are hence
considered ‘frozen’ and this behavior results in a plateau in the adsorption
isotherm that is only observed for C6 and C7. Experimental studies by Olson
and Reischman (70) have conﬁrmed two distinct adsorption regimes for
hexane in ZSM-5, with the break occurring at a loading of 3.7 hexane mol-
ecules/unit cell, close to 4, which corresponds to the number of sinusoidal
channel double ten rings per MFI unit cell.
In summary, physisorption energies in microporous materials become com-
parable to the activation energies for chemical reactions. The adsorbates recog-
nize sites which are most favorable and tend to interact preferentially with the
zeolite walls in the absence of induced polarization interactions due to the
Brønsted acid site. In general, the sorption energies arise primarily due to
van der Waals type interactions and increase with decreasing pore dimensions
of the zeolite and carbon number of the adsorbate. This increase is
accompanied by a compensation effect, however, and a corresponding
increase in adsorption entropy. Additional effects of conﬁnement within micro-
porous materials are brieﬂy discussed in the next section.
2.3.
Conﬁnement Effects
Derouane and coworkers (58–60, 71–74) have highlighted the importance
of guest-host relationships for molecules adsorbed in microporous materials
and their importance in understanding catalytic behavior. They consider
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
29
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
zeolites as solid solvents and attribute the high concentration of reactants and
hence facile bimolecular reactions in the micropores of the zeolite to high heats
of physisorption resulting due to conﬁnement effects. They also attribute
enhanced diffusion of alkanes, and different acid strengths as measured by
adsorption of ammonia and amines, to the strong intermolecular forces
between the adsorbates and the zeolite framework arising due to conﬁnement.
As described previously, they develop a model based on a critical variable, the
dimensionless ratio of the molecule size to the cage/channel size, s ¼ d/a (d ¼
distance of the ‘point’ molecule to the pore wall, a ¼ pore radius), which is sufﬁ-
cient to quantify the magniﬁcation of dispersion forces relative to a ﬂat surface
of similar chemical nature. Based on this model they derive the optimal tight ﬁt
criteria for molecules to correspond to s ¼ d/a ¼ 1.136. This optimal s value
corresponds to a pore size equal to 88% of the free gaseous molecular size
implying that molecules can ‘contract’ to enter pores. Considering the pore
walls of the zeolite to be a dense arrangement of oxygen anions that polarize
the electron density of the adsorbed molecule, they postulate that the screening
of electrons of NMR sensitive nuclei will vary and hence, the position of their
NMR resonance will be a function of the pore size. This solvation behavior of
zeolites has been evidenced by 129Xe NMR experiments for various zeolite fra-
meworks (74). Barthomeuf (32) had originally proposed a solvation effect of
zeolite micropores however, no speciﬁc consideration was given to the role of
dispersive forces between the adsorbate and the adsorbent.
Researchers (6, 38, 75, 76) have also investigated conﬁnement effects and
acidity in zeolites by using NMR methods. Local interactions dominate the reor-
ientation and dynamics associated with motion of the adsorbate with the zeolite
micropores. Motional averaging leads to narrowing of the line shapes associated
with dipolar splitting while leaving the spin +1/2 transitions unaffected in
NMR studies. For coverages below one per site, wherein stoichiometric
complexes result, the barrier to reorientation decreases with increasing pore
dimensions as evidenced by 13C NMR studies for CH3
13COCH3 and 1H NMR
studies for CH3CN.
Farneth and Gorte (6) and Lee et al. (77) have addressed the thermochem-
istry of amine/HZSM-5 complexes. The interaction between the amine and the
solid acid was considered to be a function of the deprotonation energy of the
acid site and the gas phase proton afﬁnity of the basic molecule. This has
been disputed by Derouane and Chang (73) who advocate consideration of con-
ﬁnement and solvation effects for a detailed understanding of the interaction of
bases with acid sites in zeolites. They argue against gas phase proton afﬁnity
values being adequate descriptors of adsorption processes in zeolites since
the molecule inside the zeolite cavity is strongly solvated and conﬁnement
effects may represent up to 40% of the adsorption heat of bases in zeolites.
They instead state that the interaction should be considered as a sum of two
contributions; one arising purely due to conﬁnement effects and one due to
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
30
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
acid-base interaction. In agreement with Derouane and Chang (73), Hunger
et al. (33) have successfully modeled NH3-TPD in various zeolites by consider-
ing physisorption conﬁnement interactions and acid-base protonation as
discrete contributions. In contrast, Yang et al. (76) categorized conﬁnement
effects in high silica zeolites under two classes: (i) reactant molecules interact-
ing primarily with the siliceous walls of the zeolites, so that conﬁnement is
unconstrained by the location of acid sites, for example n-C6H14 adsorption
in MFI is similar whether or not acid sites are present. In this case the
authors consider calorimetric measurements with CH4 or O2 to probe the
zeolite cavities, since these two molecules do not interact signiﬁcantly with
residual hydroxyls or alkali metal cations; and (ii) when adsorption is localized
at the Brønsted acid sites and the orientation of the adsorption complex is con-
strained by the hydrogen bond to the zeolites. In this case, studies of physically
adsorbed species cannot adequately describe the environment of the reactant
molecules as the localization of the adsorbate by the acid site affects the orien-
tation and molecular motion of the adsorbed molecule. For adsorption of strong
bases like NH3 they argue that localization affects the ability of the adsorbate
to optimize its interactions with the cavity walls and hence, the interaction
cannot be considered as the discrete sum of dispersive conﬁnement interactions
and acid-base protonation energies.
Besides the effects of spatial conﬁnement, investigators (78–80) have
addressed the electronic conﬁnement of molecules in zeolite micropores,
wherein conﬁnement strongly perturbs the energy levels of the reactant,
hence enhancing its reactivity. The implications of electronic conﬁnement
require that due to the covalent character of aluminosilicate crystals and
high degree of delocalization of electrons, the density of orbitals of the guest
molecule has to drop to nearly zero in proximity of the zeolite walls because
of short-range repulsion. A one-dimensional conﬁned model for ethylene
absorbed into a zeolite cavity was simulated by two parallel planes using the
Hu
¨ckel Molecular Orbital (HMO) theory. Based on these assumptions, a nar-
rowing of the energy gap between p and p orbitals of ethylene was
observed. In general, an increase of the energy levels was observed. The p
orbital was observed to be perturbed more, however, and this was explained
in terms of the presence of a nodal plane in the p orbital. The larger pertur-
bation of the p orbital implies lesser electron density in the bonding orbital
and hence weakening of the carbon-carbon bond which can also be interpreted
in terms of an enhanced basicity of the ethylene molecule. The smaller bonding-
antibonding (HOMO-LUMO) energy gap implies that the molecule is softer in
the conﬁned environment. These perturbations of the frontier orbitals may
imply a pre-activation of the molecule upon conﬁnement.
In a separate study, ab initio (HF/3-21G) calculations were used to inves-
tigate the modiﬁcation of the frontier orbitals in toluene in all silica clusters
(80 atoms) of zeolites Beta, ZSM-12 and ZSM-5, and, in ZSM-5 with
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
31
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
varying aluminum content to investigate the effect of pore size and chemical
composition, respectively (79). The inﬂuence of conﬁnement in different all
silica micropores was determined by establishing the distortion of the HOMO
when placing the toluene molecule in the geometrical center of the clusters.
The general trend observed was an increase in the HOMO of toluene with
decreasing cavity size. Due to introduction of aluminum and hence the
Brønsted acid proton in the ZSM-5 cluster, the negative potential created
inside the zeolite pores by lattice oxygen atoms projecting inside the zeolite
cavities is shielded. This resulted in a decrease in the HOMO energy of
toluene with increasing aluminum content. These results show that gas
phase predictions of orbital energy and reactivity may be signiﬁcantly
altered in the conﬁned environment of microporous materials.
In summary, conﬁnement effects signiﬁcantly change the heats of sorption
and concentration of reactants within the zeolite micropores, as well as the
character of the frontier orbitals of the sorbate within microporous materials.
Due to their nature and magnitude, they signiﬁcantly affect the catalytic
activity of microporous solid acids.
2.4.
Nature of Surface Intermediates
Initially the catalytic behavior of zeolites was compared to that of supera-
cids, and hence, carbocationic surface intermediates were postulated. As
initially discussed by Kazansky and coworkers (81, 82), the transformations
of hydrocarbons on zeolites are similar to solution phase chemistry, the promi-
nent difference being the replacement of solvation by water by the interaction
of adsorbed carbocations with basic surface oxygen atoms of the zeolite lattice.
The principal difference between homogeneous systems and the heterogeneous
solid acid systems arises due to the much larger stabilization of intermediate
carbocations by solvation in homogenous systems.
Kazansky and coworkers showed that protonation of adsorbed ethylene
resulted in the formation of covalent surface alkoxides instead of carbenium
ions. The bifunctional character of the active site was demonstrated to result
in a concerted transfer of the Brønsted acid proton and the simultaneous inter-
action of the adsorbate with a neighboring negatively charged oxygen atom.
Owing to the absence of strong solvation effects, the surface intermediates
were shown to be simply not as ionic as initially postulated, instead carbe-
nium-ion like transition states were proposed. Even though the initial calcu-
lations from Kazansky and coworkers were done on small zeolite clusters
involving two or three tetrahedral (2T or 3T) sites using the semi-empirical
modiﬁed neglect of differential overlap (MNDO) method, these conclusions
have been reinforced by several computational studies (27, 83–86) and have
signiﬁcantly advanced the original concept of carbocationic intermediates in
zeolites.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
32
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
The existence of polarized alkoxy intermediates was postulated by
McVicker et al. (87) and Kramer et al. (88) for butene and 2-methylpent-1-
ene isomerization, however, no experimental evidence was presented in favor
of this argument. Aronson et al. (89) used 13C NMR spectroscopy to character-
ize intermediates formed by the adsorption of 2-methyl-2-propanol on HZSM-5,
and provided experimental proof for the formation of surface alkoxides upon
interaction of an oleﬁn with Hþ sites in zeolites. The 13C NMR spectrum
obtained after adsorption and evacuation was observed to show two prominent
features, one at 77 ppm from reference trimethylsilane (TMS), which was
assigned to carbon bonded to the zeolite lattice oxygen atoms, and a second
at 29 ppm, which was attributed to aliphatic carbon species formed due to oli-
gomerization reactions. No spectral features corresponding to carbenium ions
were observed, although the chemistry observed for the adsorbed intermediate
was consistent with the formation of carbenium ions. The proposed chemical
reaction proﬁle for alcohol dehydration on the basis of NMR, TPD-TGA, and
IR experiments involves the formation of an oxonium ion that dehydrates to
form an alkoxide intermediate with the transition from the oxonium ion to
the silyl ether intermediate postulated to occur via a carbenium ion transition
state. In a parallel study Haw and coworkers (90) studied the oligomerization of
propene-2-13C on zeolite HY employing in situ variable temperature 13C solid-
state NMR with cross polarization (CP) and magic-angle spinning (MAS). 13C
CP/MAS spectra at 273 K showed a peak at 87 ppm which was attributed to
alkoxy species and did not show a peak at 250 ppm that would have evidenced
carbenium ion species.
Datemaetal.(91) analyzed the oligomerization ofethylene overHZSM-5,H-Y
and H-MOR by 13C MAS NMR experiments. Consistent with the observations of
Gorte and coworkers, the resonance positions in the 13C NMR spectra for this
work were consistent with the existence of alkoxide intermediates. A comparison
across structurally different zeolites revealed that the degree of branching of the
ﬁnal products increased with increasing pore dimensions. Hence, HZSM-5
primarily produces linear products. A recent IR and 13C NMR study of ethylene
oligomerization on HZSM-5 from Stepanov et al. (92) has also conﬁrmed that
linear alkoxy species represent the main adsorption state of oligomers in equili-
brium with a vanishingly small concentration of oligomeric carbenium ions.
In summary, although recent experimental (93, 94) studies have shown the
existence of persistent carbenium ions in zeolites for molecules with high
proton afﬁnities and carbenium ions have also been proposed in recent theoreti-
cal studies (95) based on steric inaccessibility arguments, in general, strong
coulombic interactions between the adsorbed intermediate and the catalyst
surface substantially modify the geometry and reactivity of the adsorbed
species and require that the stable intermediates in the heterogeneous acid-
catalyzed transformations of hydrocarbons on zeolites are covalently bonded
alkoxide intermediates.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
33
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
3.
ALKANE AROMATIZATION ON HZSM-5 CATALYSTS
Reactions of alkanes, including cracking, dehydrogenation, isomerization,
hydrogen transfer, and disproportionation, as well as subsequent b-scission-oli-
gomerization and cyclization reactions of the resulting oleﬁns are catalyzed by
HZSM-5. The complexity of the aromatization chemistry makes it difﬁcult to
unravel reaction mechanisms; hence, mechanistic information is largely
derived from interpreting experimental product distributions in terms of carbo-
cationic chemistry. Recent quantum chemical studies and kinetic modeling
efforts have gone a long way in elucidating the elementary reactions and their
relative signiﬁcance for this chemistry. This section focuses on the mechanistic
and modeling literature for light parafﬁn aromatization over HZSM-5.
The general features of light alkane activation, including oxidative routes
as well as conversions into alkenes or aromatics was reviewed by Scurrell (96)
in 1987. This review provides thermodynamic and kinetic considerations and
addresses the early work regarding HZSM-5 catalysts. In an excellent review
on this topic Seddon (97) has discussed the early dehydrocyclodimerization
work from Csiscery (98), the early patent literature from Mobil and British Pet-
roleum, the thermodynamics of the reaction, as well as initial reports on the
promotional effect of zinc and gallium to reduce the production of methane
and ethane. Ono (99) has reviewed the activation of C2-C6 alkanes on HZSM-
5 and Ga- and Zn-modiﬁed ZSM-5 materials and discussed mechanistic impli-
cations based on the product distribution obtained. Similarly, Guisnet and
Gnep (1, 100) have also reviewed the early literature on this subject and
have commented on the role of gallium and the synergism between gallium
and Brønsted acid sites. More recently, Hagen and Roessner (101) have dis-
cussed ethane aromatization, in particular the effect of zinc and gallium as pro-
moters for HZSM-5, the stability of the catalyst, and the reaction mechanism as
postulated based on the product distribution. In a recent publication, Caeiro
et al. (102) have reviewed C2-C4 activation over acid and bifunctional catalysis
and provide a broad overview of the aromatization and alkylation chemistry.
Each of these reviews primarily addresses mechanistic implications based on
the observed product distribution and typically address in detail only alkane
activation. We do not intend to reproduce the various comparative studies
described in the reviews above, instead we focus on individual reaction types
for this chemistry and address mechanistic issues with signiﬁcant input from
ab initio calculations. Another focus of our presentation is to critically
address various modeling approaches to these complicated hydrocarbon
systems that have been proposed in the literature.
3.1.
Chemistry of Propane Aromatization on HZSM-5
The reaction chemistry of propane aromatization is comprised of numerous
successive steps. As mentioned above, in this complex series-parallel reaction
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
34
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
system, the mechanistic conclusions presented are largely drawn from
observed product distributions. Our objective is to discuss what the reaction
steps involved in these complex pathways are and how they occur.
3.1.1.
Alkane Activation
Since this mechanism involves the initiation of the reactant, it can often be
isolated experimentally and has also been extensively studied using quantum
chemistry tools. Having already discussed the phenomena relevant for the
interaction of non-polar alkanes with microporous materials in section 2.2,
we describe the cracking, dehydrogenation and H/D exchange reactions of
alkanes catalyzed by solid acids in this section with a focus on studies done
on HZSM-5.
McVicker et al. (87) studied the conversion of isobutane over amorphous
solid acids such as SiO2-Al2O3, halided-Al2O3 as well as zeolitic materials
like USY. The observed product distribution on amorphous solid acids was con-
sistent with that expected from radical-cation intermediates, with no isomeri-
zation of isobutane to n-butane occurring. Direct C-C bond cleavage of
isobutane to methane and propylene as well as the absence of secondary
hydride transfer reactions was observed. This led the authors to state, “a
surface bound radical cation is envisioned to be formed by the one-electron oxi-
dation of isobutane by an electron acceptor site (EA) on the surface of solid
acids.” The elementary step for the activation of isobutane was postulated to
occur as shown in Eq. (1), however, no experimental evidence for such an
electron acceptor was presented.
i  C4H10 þ EA!
ki
½i  C4Hþ
10½EA
ð1Þ
The oxidizing ability of the solid and the ease of electron transfer from iso-
butane to the solid acid were postulated to be responsible for differences in
reactivity amongst solid acid catalysts. Bizreh and Gates (103) also observed
product distributions in accordance with those observed by McVicker et al.
(87) for the cracking of n-butane and isobutane and also concluded that the
product distribution was unlike that expected from acid-catalyzed cracking.
By contrast, Haag and Dessau (104) in analogy with Olah (105) postulated
a mechanism involving the protonation of alkanes by the solid acids. The Haag-
Dessau mechanism emerged from the observed product distribution for
3-methylpentane (3-MP) and n-hexane cracking over HZSM-5, Y-zeolite, and
amorphous silica-alumina solid acid catalysts. Parafﬁns at low to moderate
conversions were used as diagnostic tools as they undergo little if any second-
ary reactions. The observed product distribution when extrapolated to zero
conversion resulted in substantial yields of hydrogen, methane and ethane.
These products could not be accounted for by the classical cracking mechanism,
for which the smallest parafﬁnic product formed by b-scission of carbenium
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
35
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
ions is propane. Haag and Dessau hence postulated the reaction scheme shown
in Figure 1 whereby carbonium ion transition states were proposed to collapse
into three pairs of products, each consisting of an alkane (or hydrogen) and an
adsorbed carbenium ion.
In a parallel study, Corma and coworkers (106) also arrived at a similar
conclusion when studying the cracking of n-heptane on rare-earth (RE)HY
zeolite. They observed a parafﬁn to oleﬁn ratio signiﬁcantly in excess of one,
in contrast to the classical b-scission cracking mechanism which gives a
parafﬁn to oleﬁn ratio of unity. These experimental observations, semi-empiri-
cal calculations of non-classical penta-coordinated gas phase carbonium ions
and heptane cracking selectivity ratios of C6/C1, C5/C2 and C4/C3 of 1 on
HZSM-5 led the authors to postulate monomolecular cracking of C7 (107).
In the ﬁrst few years following the publication of the Haag-Dessau mechan-
ism, there was signiﬁcant dispute in the literature, with McVicker and Kramer
(108) arguing that the constancy of the [H2 þ C4 oleﬁns] to [CH4 þ C3H8] ratio
over non-zeolitic catalysts having a wide range of activity was difﬁcult to recon-
cile. Hall et al. (109) pointed out that the available data were completely con-
sistent with the Haag-Dessau hypothesis. They argued that the observed
transition from ﬁrst order to second order kinetics is consistent with the
more facile reactions of the oleﬁnic products formed upon initiation of
alkanes, resulting in second order kinetics at higher conversions. The above
arguments from Hall and coworkers combined with several other experimental
studies reporting product distributions consistent with carbonium ion tran-
sition states described below, as well as results from theoretical calculations
summarized below, reinforce the essential correctness of the Haag-Dessau
mechanism.
Subsequent to the Haag-Dessau work in 1984, a number of authors have
presented product distribution data conﬁrming the protolytic cracking mech-
anism. Krannila et al. (110) reported conversion of n-butane catalyzed by
HZSM-5 consistent with the Haag-Dessau protolytic cracking mechanism
with
H2 þ butenes;
methane þ propylene;
and
ethane þ ethylene
being
formed in primary reactions in approximately a one-to-one ratio. Narbeshuber
et al. (111) also reported product distributions consistent with the Haag-Dessau
Figure 1: Protolytic cracking and dehydrogenation of 3-methylpentane adapted from
Haag et al. [104].
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
36
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
mechanism in their investigation of C3-C6 reactivity over HZSM-5. Bandiera
and Taarit (112) obtained equimolar amounts of methane and ethene for
propane conversion (,3%) over HZSM-5. Stefanadis et al. (113) investigated
the cracking of isobutane on HZSM-5 and observed nearly equimolar
amounts of propene and methane in the limit of zero conversion. Several
other researchers have also observed product distributions in line with the
decomposition of a carbonium-ion-like species. We site these references (114–
123) and refer the reader to two excellent short reviews (124, 125) that detail
additional evidence in favor of the Haag-Dessau mechanism.
The observed product distribution for the experimental studies shows a
cracking-to-dehydrogenation ratio close to 3, in other words C-C bond
cleavage is found to be more facile compared to C-H bond cleavage. Narbeshu-
ber et al. (111) studied the monomolecular conversion of C3-C6 alkanes over
HZSM-5 under experimental conditions (weight of catalyst, partial pressure
of reactant, ﬂow rate of gas stream) adjusted to maintain differential conver-
sion. Unimolecular kinetics was observed, and selectivities as well as
apparent energies of activation were found to be independent of the
pressure. The rates of cracking and dehydrogenation were observed to expo-
nentially increase with carbon number. After consideration of the enhanced
adsorption due to increasing chain length of the hydrocarbon, however, it
was noted that the true activation energy of C-C bond cleavage was indepen-
dent of carbon number. Similar observations regarding the signiﬁcant effect
of alkane adsorption on observed energetics of alkane activation on various
zeolite types have also been made by other researchers (126–130). The
apparent energies of activation were found to increase in the sequence
hydrogen exchange , dehydrogenation , cracking for all carbon numbers.
The rates of reaction however, increased in the sequence dehydrogenation ,
cracking ,
, hydrogen exchange. Since the hydrogen-bonded alkane rep-
resents the precursor state for each of the three reactions, the difference in
selectivities can only be accounted for by considering different transition
states for each of these reactions. In a related study, Lercher et al. (131) have
proposed three different carbonium-ion-like transition state structures to
account for H/D exchange, protolytic cracking and protolytic dehydrogenation
as shown in Figure 2. From the proposed transition state structures, the lower
rate observed for dehydrogenation in the experimental study by Narbeshuber
et al. (111) can be rationalized in terms of the transition state for dehydrogena-
tion closely resembling the more tightly bound alkoxide product species hence
resulting in high entropy loss and a low pre-exponential factor. These studies,
as well as other ab initio calculations discussed later in this section, suggest
that the idea of a single carbonium-ion transition state for C-H and C-C bond
cleavage is perhaps an over-simpliﬁcation.
In a series of studies, researchers (132–134) have used isotopic tracer
techniques to study propane activation on HZSM-5. 13C tracer studies of
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
37
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
propane-2-13C gave a product distribution containing a random number of 13C
atoms, thereby suggesting that several oligomerization-cracking cycles were
part of a single catalytic turnover. H/D exchange was observed for D2/C3H8,
C3D8/C3H8 and CD4/C3H8 mixtures. For both D2/C3H8 and CD4/C3H8
mixtures, a statistical H/D ratio corresponding to the number of gas phase
hydrogen or deuterium atoms was observed; also, isotopomer concentrations
for each product were observed to be binomial, thereby suggesting that all
products statistically sample the composition of a common surface hydrogen
pool. The faster stepwise transfer between C3D8/C3H8 compared to D2/C3H8
mixtures was taken to be evidence for slower hydrogen adsorption-desorption
steps required to dissociate D-D bonds compared to C-D bond activation. The
appearance of D-atoms in the reaction products was considered to represent
C-D and D-D bond activation, with D2 dissociation being the microscopic
reverse of the recombinative desorption to remove hydrogen. Identical rates
of C-H bond cleavage on HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 calculated from the deuter-
ium content in C3D8/C3H8 mixtures, but an increase by a factor of three in the
propane conversion turnover rates over Ga/HZSM-5, led the authors to
conclude that C-H bond cleavage cannot limit the propane conversion rate.
The calculated virtual pressure of hydrogen, considering that the dissociation
Figure 2: Transition states for (a) H/D exchange, (b) protolytic dehydrogenation, and (c)
protolytic cracking as proposed by Lercher et al. [131]. Reprinted with permission from [131].
Copyright (1994) Springer Science and Business Media.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
38
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
of H2 leads to one H-atom that is mobile on HZSM-5, was calculated to be
216 kPa, while the gas phase pressure was less than 1 kPa. Hence, the
authors concluded that recombinative desorption of hydrogen limits alkane
aromatization on HZSM-5. These studies however, do not provide evidence
for the nature of the adsorbed hydrogen species on the surface of the catalyst
or propose structures for the mobile and immobile hydrogen species. Addition-
ally, if hydrogen recombinative desorption was limiting under these reaction
conditions, the observed reaction order for propane would be zero, while most
experimental studies observe ﬁrst-order kinetics with respect to propane. In
these studies, H-D scrambling was taken to be representative of H2 activation
and C-H bond activation. In light of recent quantum chemical studies described
later in this section, this assumption does not seem to be valid.
Narbeshuber and coworkers have also used isotopic labeling to investigate
alkane dehydrogenation and H/D exchange reactions (135, 136). Isotopic tran-
sient experiments were comprised of switching n-C4H10 with n-C4D10 and
monitoring the steady-state product distribution. The concentration of
n-C4H10 was observed to decrease in parallel with that of the tracer krypton
gas. The concentrations of C2H6, C3H6, and i-C4H8 were observed to decrease
in parallel with n-C4H10, while the responses of molecules containing deuter-
ium atoms were observed to pass through maxima in parallel with the
fraction of deuterium atoms in the product. This conﬁrms the stepwise
exchange of the deuterium atoms of the hydrocarbons with the Brønsted acid
sites of the zeolite. Additionally, the deuterium distribution in the product mol-
ecules could be described by a binomial distribution, indicating that the single
exchange events were independent of each other. The rate of H/D exchange
was found to be an order of magnitude faster than the rates of cracking and
dehydrogenation implying that H-D scrambling is an independent elementary
step and that the rate of H-D exchange may not be indicative of the rate of C-C
bond activation for protolytic cracking or C-H bond activation for dehydrogena-
tion reactions. An isotope effect was also observed for the protolytic cracking
reaction, the rate of cracking of n-C4H10 being 1.7 times faster than that of
n-C4D10 and the initial rate of cracking for a surface covered with deuterium
atoms that was fed n-C4H10 was also 1.7 times lower than a surface covered
with hydrogen atoms. Since, the ratio observed was identical for the two
isotopic switching events shown in Eq. (2), the authors concluded that
cleavage of the O-H bond of the zeolite was rate limiting for the cracking
reaction.
rðC4H10 þ HÞ
rðC4H10 þ DÞ ¼ 1:7 ¼ rðC4H10 þ HÞ
rðC4D10 þ HÞ
ð2Þ
The lack of a similar kinetic isotope effect for dehydrogenation suggested that
deprotonation of the zeolite did not play a role in the rate determining step of
protolytic dehydrogenation. The authors suggest that the rate limiting step for
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
39
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
dehydrogenation is the desorption of the alkoxide intermediate formed upon
C-H bond cleavage, consistent with the increase in apparent activation
energy with carbon number for alkane dehydrogenation observed by Narbe-
shuber et al. (111). Co-feeding n-C4H10 and n-C4D10 showed that the deuterium
distribution in butane was different from that in butenes. This result is in
agreement with the work of Iglesia and coworkers and suggests that the dehy-
drogenation/hydrogenation equilibrium is not established under reaction
conditions.
In a separate series of experiments, pressure transient response exper-
iments were carried out for n-C4H10 to monitor the dependence of cracking
and dehydrogenation as a function of time on stream (136). The reactant and
cracking products were observed to reach steady state shortly after the
tracer krypton gas, while the dehydrogenation response was observed to
have a maximum at short times on stream followed by a decrease to its
steady state value. The H2 production was observed to reach steady state
immediately upon increasing the n-C4H10 pressure from 0 to 4 kPa, in
contrast to the behavior observed for butenes. The reverse transient, i.e.,
switching from butane to helium, showed an immediate cessation of
hydrogen production implying that the H2 produced from the dehydrogenation
reaction resulting in the overshoot must remain on the surface and desorb
slowly. This short time hydrogen storage behavior was veriﬁed by repeating
the overshoot after some time; the regeneration time enabling the surface to
be free of hydrogen. The initial high activity for dehydrogenation resulted in
transient behavior and was not observed after short times on stream. The
authors speculate that this short time dehydrogenation proceeds on extrafra-
mework Al sites and, in agreement with Iglesia and coworkers (132) and
Biscardi et al. (137–139), that the recombinative desorption of hydrogen
adatoms from these sites is rate limiting. This mechanism however, is con-
sidered to only account for the short time dehydrogenation behavior of the
catalyst and is considered to have a negligible contribution at steady state.
Recent quantum chemical studies by Fa
˘rcas
¸iu and Lukinskas (140, 141)
have also postulated a dehydrogenation role for extralattice Al species.
13C isotopic labeling experiments of propane (133) and butane (136) also give
product distributions consistent with monomolecular cracking of alkanes with
chain growth processes that involve rapid oligomerization/cracking cycles.
The identical rates of 1,4-13C2-n-butane and 12C4-n-butane conversion over
HZSM-5 ruled out the preferential cleavage of speciﬁc C-C bonds.
Derouane and coworkers have used 13C MAS NMR to study the early
stages of propane-2-13C activation over HZSM-5 (142–144). These experiments
were typically conducted at 573 K although the NMR spectra were recorded
only after cooling the cell down to 293 K. Initially, only 13C scrambling in
propane, in absence of any signiﬁcant other reaction products was observed.
The initial rate of scrambling was found to correlate with the concentration
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
40
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
and strength of Brønsted sites while no correlation with the concentration of
Lewis acid sites was observed. A dependence of the primary labeled products
was found on the propane partial pressure. At low partial pressures the mono-
molecular dehydrogenation of C3H9
þ, formed by interaction of propane with the
zeolite Brønsted acid site, led to the production of hydrogen and 2-propenium
ions which can desorb forming propylene and restoring the Brønsted acid
sites. The observation of C2 and C4 hydrocarbons as primary products was
accounted for by considering that at high partial pressures, C3H9
þ carbonium
ions reacted with other propane molecules to give ethane and butonium ions.
Hence, the carbonium ion transition state could further evolve in four different
ways as shown in Figure 3, leading to the 13C scrambling in propane, cracking,
dehydrogenation and disproportionation. Luzgin et al. (145) have also demon-
strated unimolecular scrambling of 13C in butane and propane using 13C and
1H MAS NMR although n-C4 to i-C4 isomerization reactions were proposed to
occur via bimolecular oligomerization-cracking cycles.
Stepanov and Freude (146) observed both methyl (CH3) and methylene
(CH2) groups to undergo H-D exchange in in situ 1H MAS NMR studies of
C3D8-loaded HZSM-5. A 3:1 ratio between the intensities of the CH3 and
CH2 evidenced against the formation of an intermediate propenium cationic
species that would have led to regiospeciﬁc H/D exchange with protium enrich-
ment in the methyl group. Co-adsorption of propylene resulted in a decrease in
H/D exchange for methyl and methylene groups, contrary to what is expected
for a carbenium ion mechanism. Additional co-adsorption experiments of water
Figure 3: The four different pathways for evolution of the carbonium ion transition state as
postulated by Derouane and coworkers [142, 143]. Reprinted with permission from [142].
Copyright (1998) Springer Science and Business Media. Reprinted with permission from [143].
Copyright (1999) Elsevier.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
41
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
or CO molecules, which interact with Brønsted acid sites of the zeolite, also
resulted in a decreased rate of exchange. Based on the above experiments, in
agreement with Haag-Dessau mechanism, the exchange reaction was con-
sidered to occur via a pentavalent transition state. The apparent activation
energies obtained for the exchange of methyl groups (108 + 7 kJ/mol) and
methylene groups (117 + 7 kJ/mol) are in good agreement with computational
studies (147). More recent work from these authors (145) used isotopically
labeled propane with the deuterium isotope in either the methyl (propane-
1,1,1,3,3,3-d6) or methylene (propane-2,2-d2) group and deuterated propane
(C3D8) to study H/D exchange on HZSM-5 using in situ 1H and 13C MAS
NMR. Their results show that methyl and methylene groups both undergo
H-D exchange and intramolecular hydrogen transfer between methyl and
methylene groups measured by the 13C-label scrambling in propane is one
order of magnitude slower than the hydrogen exchange of either methyl or
methylene groups with the zeolite Brønsted acid sites.
Truitt et al. (69) have also used NMR methods to demonstrate (i) that
alkanes interact with zeolites at Brønsted acid sites via speciﬁc adsorption
complexes that enable (ii) low temperature (273 K) exchange between iso-
butane and the Brønsted acid proton. Simultaneous monitoring of appearance
of protium (H) on products and deuterium (D) on the zeolite enabled the
authors to correlate the kinetic events and obtain a consistent picture of H-D
exchange. Based on analysis of the residual carbon content on the zeolite
(,0.04 per Al) and the lack of an induction period, the authors argued
against minority unsaturated hydrocarbons initiating reaction and proposed
the mechanism shown in Figure 4 for regiospeciﬁc H-D exchange between iso-
butane and the catalyst surface.
Quantum chemical calculations have also been extensively employed to
develop mechanistic understanding for alkane activation over zeolitic acid
sites. Initial calculations of H/D exchange by Kramer et al. (147) and Sauer
(148) showed that carbonium ion transition states were involved in the H/D
exchange reaction of methane over an AlO4
2 tetrahedra. Kazansky and co-
workers (149–151) provided initial conﬁrmation for the ionicity of the tran-
sition states for H/D exchange, dehydrogenation and cracking. Calculations
from Collins and O’Malley (152, 153) also predicted the formation of a carbo-
nium ion species upon proton transfer from the acid site to the parafﬁn and
detailed the collapse of the resulting free carbonium ion directly to a smaller
alkane and alkene without formation of an intermediate alkoxide adsorbate.
The activation energy values predicted using the semi-empirical and DFT
methods on 1 T and 2 T clusters exceeded experimentally observed values,
however, the qualitative trends predicted by these calculations were correct.
In a series of publications Blaszkowski et al. (154–156) have studied the
activation of C-H and C-C bonds by acidic zeolites. Most of these calculations
were done on generic 3 T clusters with application of the local density
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
42
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
approximation (LDA) and using double-z basis sets. Transition states and the
corresponding energy barriers, as well as rate constants using transition
state theory, of H/D exchange, dehydrogenation, cracking and hydride
transfer between methanol and a methoxide group (CH3-zeolite) were evalu-
ated. The computed activation barriers of 118 kJ/mol for H-D exchange,
202 kJ/mol for hydride transfer, 292 kJ/mol for cracking, and 297 kJ/mol for
dehydrogenation, were high when compared to experimental values observed
for ethane. Different carbonium-ion-like transition state structures for each
of the reactions rationalized the different activation energies. For the tran-
sition state (TS) structure corresponding to H/D exchange, one of the carbon
atoms is protonated by the zeolite, while the second carbon atom remains tetra-
hedrally coordinated. The C2H7
þ group could be divided into two distinct parts:
a neutral C2H5 fragment and the two hydrogen atoms interacting with two
lattice oxygen atoms (C2H5 bonded to H2
þ-ZO2). For cracking, the C2H7
þ
group could similarly be divided into two distinct entities: a neutral methane
molecule and a carbenium ion CH3
þ species interacting with basic lattice
oxygen atoms of the zeolite. On the same lines, the TS for dehydrogenation
Figure 4: Reaction scheme for regio-speciﬁc direct H-D exchange between isobutane
and HZSM-5 adapted from Truitt et al. [367]. Reprinted with permission from [367]. Copyright
(2006) American Chemical Society.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
43
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
was observed to correspond to a C2H5
þ fragment and a neutral H2 molecule.
Using the method described by Kramer and van Santen (18) to vary acidity
by varying terminal Si-H bond lengths, the authors compared the ionicity of
the transition state structures described above. The transition state for H/D
exchange was found to have the highest covalent character. The H/D
exchange reaction was computed to have a large pre-exponential factor, and
in agreement with experimental studies described above was proposed to be
facile in comparison to dehydrogenation or cracking. Calculations at the
B3LYP/6-31G and MP2/6-31G/
/HF/6-31G levels from Esteves et al.
(157) on 3 T clusters have conﬁrmed that the transition state for dehydrogena-
tion exhibits a much higher ionic character than the transition state for H/D
exchange. More recent studies from Zheng and Blowers (158) done on 3 T
clusters have also conﬁrmed that H-D exchange is faster than dehydrogenation
or cracking for C1-C4 alkanes. All the above calculations were performed either
on clusters, where the terminal silicon or hydrogen atoms were not ﬁxed to rep-
resent a particular crystallographic framework or on small clusters (less than 5
T atoms). Recent theoretical studies for alkene chemisorption have shown the
importance (85, 159) of local zeolite geometry on the stability of the alkoxide
intermediate which the above studies are not well suited to capture.
Zygmunt et al. (160) have presented an ab initio and density functional
study for ethane cracking over HZSM-5 on a 5 T cluster at the HF, B3LYP
and MP2(fc) levels of theory using the 6-31G(d) basis set. The effect of
cluster size on the computed activation barrier was investigated by using
larger clusters (up to 58 T) with rigid experimental geometries wherein geome-
tries from the 5 T cluster were embedded in much larger zeolitic clusters with
no further geometry optimization. The activation barrier was found to be sen-
sitive to long-range effects; embedding within a 58 T cluster led to a 60 kJ/mol
reduction in the activation barrier from the value calculated for a 5 T cluster.
The calculated activation barrier of 210–225 kJ/mol with the 58 T cluster is
in good agreement with experimental values (111). The signiﬁcant change in
the activation energy induced by long-range electrostatic effects was attributed
to the polar zeolite framework stabilizing the charged transition state (0.9 e) to
a greater extent relative to the neutral alkoxide species or the physisorbed
ethane molecule. An alternative way of considering the same physical phenom-
ena is that the transition state has a much larger dipole moment compared to
the adsorbed complex, and hence, in presence of the electric ﬁeld of the zeolite,
its energy is reduced much more compared to the resulting adsorbate complex.
This study clearly demonstrates the effects of cluster size on computed energy
values and emphasizes the need for embedded cluster type computational tech-
niques for obtaining an accurate energetic picture in these systems. In light of
this work, some recent studies involving embedded QM/MM techniques (161)
and molecular dynamics with quantum forces (162) have conﬁrmed the strong
polarization effects of the zeolite cavity.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
44
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
In summary, the Haag-Dessau mechanism for protolytic activation of the
alkane via penta-coordinated carbonium-ion-like transition states explains
the observed product distribution. Experimental studies show different rates
for H/D exchange, C-H bond cleavage, and C-C bond cleavage, and also
address the crucial role of alkane adsorption in determining the intrinsic
reaction rates. Theoretical studies have shown different transition state struc-
tures for these reactions and hence provided a basis for rationalizing differ-
ences in measured experimental rates for these reactions. The current
challenge lies in extending this understanding to longer and branched hydro-
carbon molecules, both experimentally and theoretically.
3.1.2.
Oleﬁn Adsorption
As discussed in Section 2.4., initial work from McVicker and coworkers,
NMR studies from Gorte and coworkers as well as Haw and coworkers, and
theoretical studies from Kazansky and coworkers have established the for-
mation of neutral alkoxide structures upon oleﬁn adsorption in zeolites. We
extend that discussion here and focus only on the oleﬁn adsorption studies.
As discussed in section 2.2., parafﬁn adsorption in zeolites has been well
studied experimentally, however, for unsaturated oleﬁnic molecules, inter-
action with Brønsted acid sites often results in oligomerization. Hence, exper-
imental measurements for oleﬁn adsorption are challenging and are typically
undertaken at low temperatures and low pressures to minimize secondary
reactions.
Spoto et al. (163) studied ethene and propene oligomerization on HZSM-5
using FTIR spectroscopy while collecting 7 interferograms per second at
4 cm21 resolution. The fast collection enabled the adsorption process to be cate-
gorized into three intervals (A) immediately after dosage up to a contact time
not exceeding 10s, that probes the structure of the primary interaction, (B)
up to a contact time of 1.5 minutes, that probes the initial stages of oligomeriza-
tion, and (C) up to several hours, that discusses the long time behavior of the
reaction. In regime (A), a frequency shift for the Brønsted acid sites
(3610 cm21 band) and the ethylene molecule were found, while no perturbation
of the external silanol groups (3746 cm21 band) was observed. The observed
perturbations were attributed to the formation of a 1:1 p-complex as shown
in Figure 5; resulting in a red-shift of 389 cm21 for the O-H Brønsted acid
site stretching frequency and reduced symmetry of the adsorbed C2H4 as
well as reduced density of charge on the carbon-carbon double bond
(measured by the 11 cm21 downward shift of the n(C5
5C) bond). The short
term oligomerization data showed the appearance of characteristic modes of
CH3 and CH2 saturated groups, indicating that protonation and polymeriz-
ation processes have occurred. The absence of -CH(CH3)2 and -C(CH3)3
species inferred from the IR spectra as well as the high intensity ratio
I(CH2)/I(CH3) and noting that the speciﬁc intensity is higher for CH3 groups
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
45
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
indicated that primarily linear species were formed in the initial time period of
7-30 s. Similar observations regarding the propensity of HZSM-5 to form linear
products have been postulated on the basis of NMR studies (89). At longer
times on stream, oligomeric products with branched chains could also be dis-
cerned. For propylene a higher red-shift (from 3610 cm21 to 3070 cm21) as
well as considerably more oligomerization was found.
On the basis of isotopic H/D labeling studies at low temperatures some
researchers (164–169) suggest a more complex energy proﬁle for oleﬁn adsorp-
tion. The proposed energy proﬁle involves interaction of the alkyl group with
the Brønsted acid site (I), non-activated transition from this state to a state
where the alkene molecule interacts primarily with the zeolite walls (II), an
un-activated transition from state (II) to a complex involving interaction of
the alkyl group with the Brønsted acid site (III), and ﬁnally an activated tran-
sition from state (III) to the p-complex involving interaction of the oleﬁnic
double bond with the Brønsted acid site. In agreement with other researchers
(90, 93), these authors also ﬁnd alkenyl carbenium ions upon adsorption of
cyclic compounds where delocalization and steric considerations result in
stable carbenium ion like species. The reader is referred to an excellent
review of carbenium ion species in zeolites by Kiricsi et al. for additional infor-
mation on this topic (170).
Kofke and Gorte (40) have used temperature-programmed desorption
(TPD) and thermogravimetric analysis (TPD-TGA) with gas chromatographic
analysis to study the low-temperature reaction of ethene, propene and
2-methyl-2-propanol in HZSM-5. Propene was observed to oligomerize at
295 K, 2-methyl-2-propanol was also observed to adsorb and dehydrate at
295 K, while ethylene reacted only at temperatures higher than 370 K. Essen-
tially identical TPD product distributions from all three adsorbates suggested
that the cracking and alkylation of similar oligomeric species was involved.
Although these studies cannot directly examine the nature of the surface
Figure 5: The interaction of the electron rich double bond with the electron deﬁcient
Brønsted acid site of the zeolite results in the formation of a physisorbed p-complex adapted
from Spoto et al. [163]. Reproduced by permission of the Royal Society of Chemistry.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
46
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
species on the catalyst, the observed product distribution was consistent with
carbenium ion reactions.
Following the initial pioneering work from Kazansky and coworkers, a
number of ab initio studies have addressed the protonation of oleﬁnic molecules
in zeolites. Viruela-Martin et al. (171) showed that propene and isobutene
adsorption on zeolites involved the formation of a p-complex that is transformed
to an alkoxide species by a carbenium-ion-like transition state (SCF/3-21G level
of theory on a 3 T cluster). The mechanism involved two lattice oxygen atoms,
and hence, the authors concluded that Brønsted acidic centers should always
be considered in conjunction with neighboring basic lattice oxygen sites. The
computed physisorption energies matched up well with experimental values,
however, the activation energy calculated far exceeded values obtained by
Aronson et al. (89). Even though the terminal atoms were not constrained to
mimic a particular zeolite framework, the authors mention that heterogeneity
of sites within a zeolite structure may arise due to varying local geometry. Sig-
niﬁcantly higher activation energies compared to measured experimental
values were also reported by Evleth et al. (172) for ethylene, propylene, and
acetylene adsorption on small 1 T and 2 T zeolite clusters using AM1 and
PM3 semi-empirical methods and ab initio MP2/6-31G level calculations.
In a combined theoretical (at the DFT level of theory using a 6 T cluster)
and 13C MAS NMR experimental study, Nicholas et al. (173) have addressed
the interaction of propene with various solid acid catalysts. In agreement
with other theoretical studies described, the authors predict the formation of
a physisorbed p-complex and an alkoxide species upon proton transfer with
the net charge on the C3H7 fragment to be 0.44 e. The NMR experiments
show that propene does not undergo complete label scrambling in HZSM-5
demonstrating that the isopropyl cation does not exist in the zeolite cavity in
contrast to true superacids such as SbF5 and AlBr3 that result in complete
label scrambling.
Rigby et al. (84, 174) have shown that the four different alkoxides of
methylbutane have similar energies, with no particular ordering reﬂecting
their primary, secondary and tertiary nature. The differences in activation
energies for the adsorption of propene as primary and secondary alkoxides of
27 kJ/mol and iso-butene as primary and tertiary alkoxides of 50 kJ/mol,
were signiﬁcantly greater than the corresponding reaction heats of 12.5 and
15.5 kJ/mol. The authors suggest that the broad predictions of the carbenium
ion model are successful due to an ordering of the transition states rather than
an ordering of the neutral alkoxide species. Similar observations about neutral
alkoxide intermediates, bifunctional nature of the active site, as well as reactiv-
ity being dictated by the carbenium ion characteristics of the transition state
have been made by other researchers (86, 175, 176).
For the protonation of ethene, propene, 1-butene, and iso-butene on uni-
dimensional theta-1 zeolite Boronat et al. (85, 95) observed a destabilization
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
47
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
of the alkoxide intermediates compared to the physisorbed p-complex. The
formation of the covalent C-O bond was hindered due to enforced structural
constraints of the rigid zeolite lattice, and hence, the authors cautioned
against comparing adsorption energies on structurally different zeolites. Acti-
vation energies on the other hand, did not show a signiﬁcant dependence on the
local geometry of the active site because unlike alkoxide adsorbed species, tran-
sition states were found to have high ionic character and therefore were mainly
stabilized by the negative potential of the zeolite wall. A DFT study by Correa
and Mota (159) has also conﬁrmed the signiﬁcance of steric effects on the stab-
ility of the alkoxy species. A comparison for the protonation of butene isomers
on a generic 3T cluster showed that the t-alkoxy species was the least stable
adsorbate. While local structural effects are observed to destabilize the
alkoxide species, the inclusion of long range Madelung effects has been
shown to enhance the stability of the alkoxide species (177).
Rozanska et al. (178) have presented a systematic study for understanding
relaxation effects pertaining to the local environment of the active site when
studying propene chemisorption in acidic chabazite. The authors compare
the energy of the p-complex, the activation barrier, and the alkoxide
complex, for a fully relaxed cluster and for a cluster when all the zeolite
atoms except the aluminum and the four oxygen atoms around it, are ﬁxed.
The physisorption energy was not affected by cluster relaxation, however,
the activation energy increased from 57 to 91 kJ/mol upon constraining the
zeolite lattice. This results in the transition from the adsorbed p-complex to
the adsorbed alkoxide species becoming endothermic, an observation also
made by Benco et al. (179). Although no single bond distance, bond angle or
dihedral angle was identiﬁed as the primary cause, this study also demon-
strates that the adsorbate conﬁguration and corresponding charge density,
and heat of adsorption are sensitive to the local zeolite structure. In another
study, Rozanska et al. (180) have compared isobutene chemisorption on chaba-
zite (CHA), ZSM-22 (TON) and mordenite (MOR) and shown that short-range
electrostatic contributions are important for the stabilization of the carbocatio-
nic transition state. The activation energy was found to be the smallest in the
case of an optimum ﬁt of the transition state complex shape with zeolite micro-
pore size. Hence, large pore zeolites like MOR may stabilize the transition state
only to a limited extent, while small pore zeolites may induce steric constraints
to destabilize the transition state.
Recently, our work (27) on alkoxide formation from propene and hexene in
HZSM-5 has addressed the effects of carbon number, proton siting, aluminum
siting, and bonding conﬁguration (primary versus secondary) of the alkoxide
intermediate. We report a novel reaction path for propene chemisorption,
whereby the primary alkoxide is bonded to the Brønsted host oxygen rather
than a neighboring lattice oxygen. We also observe different alkoxide adsorp-
tion energies at different lattice positions (Aluminum substitution at the T4
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
48
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
versus T12 sites) in HZSM-5, thereby conﬁrming that the energy of the adsor-
bate depends on the local zeolite geometry. In agreement with Rozanska et al.
(178) we also ﬁnd changes in the ﬁrst shell of oxygen atoms surrounding the
aluminum site at the transition state geometry and note that the aluminum
hosting the Brønsted site or the alkoxide always has a longer Al-O bond
length. Recent in situ EXAFS experiments for ethene chemisorption on H-Y
zeolite, from van Bokhoven et al. (181) have also conﬁrmed a 0.2 A
˚ longer
aluminum-oxygen bond length for the oxygen that binds the proton, in excel-
lent agreement with our theoretical predictions.
In summary, although experimental and theoretical studies have con-
ﬁrmed that oleﬁn adsorption occurs in a concerted manner, with proton
transfer from the Brønsted acid site onto a carbon atom of the oleﬁn double
bond with the simultaneous formation of the C-O bond, it has now become
apparent that the activation barriers and adsorbate complexes are a function
of the local zeolite geometry. Hence, measured experimental values or those
calculated based on kinetic models probably represent an average value. In
general, if the charge on the basic zeolite lattice oxygen atom is not sterically
inaccessible alkoxide intermediates are formed; however, the delocalization
of charge is a function of the local geometry of the zeolite and hydrocarbon
species that exist as alkoxides in a particular zeolite may exist as carbenium
ions in another.
3.1.3.
b-scission/Oligomerization
Oleﬁn interconversion and cyclization are known to occur at temperatures
in the range 473–673 K on HZSM-5, indicating the much higher reactivity of
oleﬁns compared to the corresponding parafﬁns. Cracking of oleﬁns at the
higher temperatures used for light parafﬁn aromatization (773 K) presents
experimental challenges due to high reaction rates. The term ‘conjunct polymer-
ization’ was coined by Pines (182) to describe the products of acid-catalyzed
reactions of oleﬁns involving successive oligomerization/cracking cycles. An
example of the complexity of this chemistry can be seen from the work of
Quann et al. (183).
Abbot and Wojciechowski (184) studied the cracking of C5-C9 alkenes on
HZSM-5 at 678 K, and based on the observed product distributions, concluded
that pentene and hexene cracked by a dimerization-cracking route, while C7-C9
could undergo unimolecular cracking. Bessel and Seddon (185) found that
ethene and propene conversion over HZSM-5 involves successive oligomeriza-
tion/cracking cycles resulting in the formation of intermediate C4 and C5
oleﬁns. In studying the isomerization and hydrocracking of C9-C16 parafﬁns
on a Pt/HZSM-5 catalyst, Weitkamp et al. (186) introduced terminology
which is useful in organizing the various types of C-C bond cleavage reactions
for carbenium ions. Buchanan et al. (187) have further extended this nomencla-
ture and have studied the relative rates of various types of b-scission reactions
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
49
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
for C5-C8 oleﬁns over HZSM-5 at 783 K under low hydrocarbon partial pressure
conditions and high silica/alumina (SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 650) ratios to minimize the
effects of bimolecular reactions. For each feed, Buchanan et al. (187) have
enumerated all the plausible b-scission reactions and related these steps to
the observed product distribution to obtain relative rates for the various
modes of b-scission. The appreciable abundance of isomers prior to appreciable
cracking of the oleﬁn feed evidenced the facile adsorption/desorption process
for oleﬁns relative to cracking. The product distribution for hexene and
heptene was found to be independent of the particular oleﬁn fed, indicating
that isomerization was rapid compared to cracking. For C8 oleﬁns the
observed product distribution could not be rationalized by the most energeti-
cally favored tertiary-tertiary cracking mechanism due to steric hindrance in
forming the highly branched C8 structure within the zeolite pores. Although
only relative rates for the various modes of b-scission are presented, this excel-
lent study allows for a semi-quantitative description of the b-scission reaction
in terms of carbenium ion mechanisms based on the observed product distri-
bution for C5-C8 oleﬁns.
Rigby et al. (84), Frash and van Santen (188), and Frash et al. (189) have
investigated the mechanism of the b-scission reaction using DFT and ab initio
Hartree-Fock calculations. On generic 1T and 3T clusters, complex potential
energy surfaces for the cracking of but-1-oxy and pent-1-oxy were found.
Three possible reaction paths were found: one-step via the “ringlike” tran-
sition state (RL); two-step via the “hydrogen-bonded” transition state and sub-
stituted cyclopropane (HBCP); and one-step via the “hydrogen-bonded”
transition state (HB). The lowest energy path was the HBCP pathway that
warrants initial formation of the new C-C bond followed by simultaneous
cleavage of two C-C bonds. The existence of a cyclopropane species has also
been proposed by Sie (190–192) to explain the observed product distribution
for cracking of longer chain parafﬁnic molecules. Van Santen et al. found
the transition state to possess signiﬁcant ionic character (0.8 e), while the
reactants and products were found to be neutral alkoxide species (0.4 e).
Activation energies were found to decrease with increasing carbon number.
The activation barrier however, was overestimated in each case due to the
small clusters used.
Hay et al. (193) investigated the b-scission of pentene and branched methyl
pentene in the gas phase as well as after adsorption on a generic 3 T cluster
using the HF/6-31G and B3LYP/6-31G methods. Branching was calculated
to result in a decrease of 25 kJ/mol for the activation barrier, while the
overall reaction was endothermic in the amount of 80 kJ/mol for both mol-
ecules. The activation barriers calculated were of the order of 230 kJ/mol
and are signiﬁcantly higher than values calculated from experimental studies.
Svelle et al. (194) found concerted and stepwise mechanisms for the dimer-
ization of ethene, propene, 1-butene, and trans-2-butene over a generic 4 T
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
50
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
cluster at the B3LYP/6-31G(d) level of theory. The stepwise mechanism
involves the interaction of an adsorbed alkoxide intermediate with an oleﬁn,
while the concerted mechanism postulates that protonation and C-C bond for-
mation occur simultaneously with the initial state being two physisorbed
oleﬁnic molecules. The activation energy for the concerted mechanism was
found to lie between the two barriers of the stepwise mechanism, which
suggests that the concerted dimerization mechanism would be prevalent.
However, if the chemisorption reaction to form the alkoxide, for which the
lowest barrier is found, is driven to completion, then every acidic site has an
adsorbed alkoxide and the concerted route is blocked. The energy barrier for
the step-wise reaction is high simply because alkoxide formation results in
an energy well from which further progress of the reaction requires overcoming
a signiﬁcant energy barrier. Thus, the relative energies of the physisorbed and
chemisorbed alkenes determine the prevalent mechanism, and a general trend
for C2-C4 oleﬁns was not observed. Vos et al. (195) and Arstad et al. (196, 197)
have also proposed a similar concerted reaction pathway involving both
reactant species physisorbed on the Brønsted acid site for alkylation of aro-
matics by oleﬁns. We mention here that each of the theoretical studies
described above was done on clusters that did not speciﬁcally mimic any par-
ticular zeolite lattice structure, hence, local relaxation effects that have been
shown to have a signiﬁcant effect on the energy of the adsorbed alkoxide inter-
mediate, may also signiﬁcantly alter the energy proﬁle for the b-scission and
oligomerization reactions.
In summary, although the major features of the observed product distri-
bution for the b-scission reaction can be described in terms of carbenium ion
chemistry, theoretical studies have shown that the reaction proﬁle is
complex. Additionally, the effects of local zeolite geometry on the reaction
mechanism and the corresponding energetics have still not been addressed
in the literature.
3.1.4.
Hydride Transfer and Alkylation Reactions
Hydride transfer is a bimolecular reaction involved in the chain transfer
process after the formation of the adsorbed alkoxide intermediate and can be
represented as shown in Eq. (3) with Hþ representing the Brønsted acid site
of the zeolite.
CmH2m  Hþ þ CnH2nþ2 
! CmH2mþ2 þ CnH2n  Hþ
ð3Þ
To our knowledge this reaction has not been isolated experimentally and
kinetics of hydride transfer steps are typically inferred from kinetic models.
Theoretical studies have in this case been of great utility and have allowed
researchers to gain mechanistic insight as well as kinetic parameters for
these reactions.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
51
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Investigators (198–201) have studied ﬁve examples of the hydride transfer
reaction at the MP2(fc)/6-31þþG/
/HF/6-31G level of theory on a 1 T
cluster. The examples considered were: (i) methane-methyl (18 ! 18), (ii)
ethyl-ethane (18 ! 18), (iii) s-propyl-propane (28 ! 28), (iv) t-butyl-propane
(38 ! 28), and (v) t-butyl-isobutane (38 ! 38). According to the authors, the
hydride transfer reaction involves the attack of a parafﬁn on the covalently
bonded surface alkoxide intermediate, resulting in a polarization and
elongation of the C-O alkoxy bond. The activation barriers calculated were
(i) 278 (ii) 236 and (iii)–(v) 196–200 kJ/mol respectively. The enhanced
steric repulsions due to the bulkier transition state for the 38 ! 28 and
38 ! 38 hydride transfer reactions were attributed to result in similar acti-
vation barriers for (iii)–(v). The geometry and charge of the transition state
closely resemble that of a non-classical penta-coordinated carbonium ion
species. At the transition state (see Figure 6) the two molecules are connected
by a central hydrogen atom with small positive or even negative charge, which
gives rise to the hydridic nature of the reaction. Although these studies
were performed on 1 T clusters more representative of alumina sites or extra-
framework aluminum sites and the activation barriers computed were much
higher in comparison with those inferred from kinetic models, these compu-
tational studies represent the ﬁrst characterization of the hydride transfer
reactions.
Boronat and coworkers (202–204) have also investigated hydride transfer
reactions using density functional theory. Initial calculations (202) for (C3H7-
H-C3H7)þ interacting with a 3 T cluster at the B3PW91/6-31G level of
Figure 6: Schematic illustration of the hydride transfer reaction between CH4 and a CH3
þ
species adapted from Kazansky et al. [199]. Reprinted with permission from [199]. Copyright
(1997) Springer Science and Business Media.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
52
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
theory gave a true activation barrier of 138 kJ/mol, in better agreement with
kinetic studies. In a later study, Boronat et al. (204) have studied the (C2H5-
H-C2H5)þ carbonium ion as a reaction intermediate in presence of a 3 T
cluster. Besides hydride transfer with an activation barrier of 150 kJ/mol at
the B3PW91/6-31G level, and slightly higher (171 kJ/mol) at the MP2
level, the authors also ﬁnd that an alkylation reaction occurs. Alkylation
here refers to the decomposition of the (C2H5-H-C2H5)þ carbonium ion
species into an n-butane molecule and regeneration of the Brønsted acid site.
This pathway is found to have an activation barrier similar to that computed
for hydrogen transfer and the overall reaction is thermodynamically favored
due to the 125 kJ/mol exothermicity of the reaction (see Figure 7). The
rearrangement required for formation of CH4 and C3H7
þ via the disproportiona-
tion reaction was however, found to be energetically unfavorable. These studies
suggest a common intermediate for hydride transfer, disproportionation and
alkylation reactions between adsorbed oleﬁns and alkanes.
In summary, theoretical calculations have determined initial structures for
activated complexes and associated barriers for hydride transfer reactions,
however, details regarding effects of carbon number, and local zeolite
geometry, hydride transfer reactions involving allylic adsorbed species for
dehydrogenation reactions resulting in the formation of products like
benzene, toluene, etc., have not yet been addressed in the literature.
3.1.5.
Cyclization
Dehydrocyclodimerization, the conversion of light oleﬁns (C2-C4) to aro-
matics is often carried out over bifunctional catalysts containing acidic and
dehydrogenation components. However, cyclization and aromatization also
occur over purely acidic zeolites as well. It is postulated that cyclization
Figure 7: Potential energy proﬁles for hydride transfer, alkylation and disproportionation of
a [C2H5-H-C2H5]þ complex reproduced from Boronat et al. (204). Reproduced by permission
of the PCCP Owner Societies.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
53
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
involves an equilibrium between 5- and 6-membered ring species although
5-membered ring species are not observed in any signiﬁcant concentration in
the product distribution. Experimental veriﬁcation of the elementary steps
in zeolite catalyzed cyclization mechanisms has remained largely elusive due
to the simultaneous secondary reactions. A general scheme based on carbe-
nium ion chemistry is typically considered, as shown in Figure 8. Cyclization
is presumed to occur with the attack of the positive carbon formed upon proto-
nation of a diene on to the remaining carbon-carbon double bond. The resulting
alkylcyclopenta- carbenium ions then undergoes successive hydride transfer
reactions, forming a stable 38 carbenium ion, which then undergoes ring
expansion.
Based on extensive 13C NMR and theoretical studies for the Methanol-to-
Gasoline (MTG) system, researchers (93, 205–208) have shown the existence
of persistent carbenium ions in zeolites. These NMR studies reveal only
cyclic, resonance stabilized tertiary cations to persist on these catalysts and
the authors have postulated these species to be critical surface intermediates
in the hydrocarbon pool mechanism for MTG. Although these species
undergo facile alkylation and dealkylation reactions resulting in C-C bond for-
mation for MTG chemistry, it is not apparent, whether these species are pre-
cursors to formation of C6 and higher aromatics directly or whether ring-
expansion proceeds via other pentacyclic carbenium ion species, particularly
in light of theoretical studies that have predicted a high energy barrier for
cyclization via a tertiary carbenium ion species (207, 209).
Based on semi-empirical calculations for isomerization of the cyclohexy-
lium ion to 1-methycyclopentylium ion and the 1-methylcyclohexylium ion to
1-ethylcyclopentylium ion, Viruela-Martin et al. (210, 211) have postulated
the existence of two slightly different protonated cyclopropane bicyclic inter-
mediates for ring expansion and contraction. Our recent study (209) discusses
various cyclization mechanisms for hexadiene cyclization via carbenium ion
species in absence of the zeolite and conﬁrms the existence of a bicyclo inter-
mediate for ring-expansion.
Figure 8: Proposed scheme for cyclization via a pentacyclic carbenium ion species that
undergoes ring expansion.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
54
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
We brieﬂy discuss our results here and the reader is referred to the original
publication (209) for additional details. We have examined three pathways for
cyclization of the gas phase C6H11
þ carbenium ion species shown in Figure 9: (i)
1–5 ring closure followed by successive hydride transfer reactions to result in a
secondary carbenium ion that undergoes ring expansion via a bicyclic inter-
mediate (ii) 1–5 ring closure followed by successive hydride transfer reactions
to result in a tertiary carbenium ion that subsequently also undergoes ring
expansion and (iii) direct 1,6 ring closure without the formation of a cyclopentyl
intermediate. For gas phase cyclization investigated at B3LYP/6-311 þ G(2d,p)
level of theory, we ﬁnd reaction path (i) to be the preferred pathway due to the
secondary nature of the transition state (Path II shown in Figure 9). Our initial
calculations for C6 alkoxides show that the relative stability of the alkoxide
intermediates
is
18 . 28 . 38.
We
attribute
this
reversal
in
ordering
compared to the analogous gas phase species to steric repulsions and hence
longer C-O alkoxy bond lengths for 28 and 38 alkoxide species.
Recently Joshi and Thomson (212) have presented a comprehensive study
of C6 diene cyclization in HZSM-5 employing the embedded cluster QM/MM
methodology.
They
investigated
cyclization
mechanisms
for
different
adsorbed conﬁgurations of C6 (physisorbed, 18 chemisorbed alkoxide and 28
chemisorbed alkoxide) and concluded that primary alkoxide intermediates
undergo cyclization via 1–6 ring-closure while secondary alkoxide intermedi-
ates undergo 1–5 ring closure followed by ring expansion. It is observed that
Figure 9: Cyclization pathways of a hexadiene species via carbenium ion pathways
adapted from Joshi et al. [209]. Reprinted with permission from [209]. Copyright (2004)
American Chemical Society.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
55
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
site accessibility and strain in the 5-membered ring species rather than the
primary or secondary nature are the primary drivers for the activation
barrier. Joshi and Thomson have also compared activation barriers for C6, C7
and C8 cyclization (213) and found that 1–6 ring closure for C6 species has a
29 kJ/mol higher activation energy compared to C7 and C8 species. This
result perhaps explains the high selectivity to toluene observed for propane
aromatization experimentally. We have incorporated relative activation
barriers from the above DFT studies in our microkinetic model (214) and
have successfully predicted the experimentally observed benzene, toluene
and xylene production for propane aromatization over HZSM-5 over a wide
range of space time and temperature values.
We note that although the formation of hexatriene and thermal cyclization
has been noted for noble metal catalysts, in agreement with Meriaudeau and
Naccache (215), we seek to distinguish the mechanism for cyclization over
acidic zeolites from bifunctional noble metal catalysts that form metallocy-
cloalkane intermediates and are efﬁcient for aromatization. Meriaudeau and
Naccache (215) also note that in starting from n-hexane and n-heptane, the
major aromatic products were not benzene and toluene respectively, but were
composed of a mixture of benzene, toluene and xylenes. The chemical compo-
sition was closer to that expected from thermodynamics, implying that ring
closure is not the primary mechanism for aromatics production instead,
several fragmentation and C-C bond formation cycles occur prior to ring
closure.
To summarize, probing cyclization mechanisms remains experimentally
challenging. Recent DFT calculations from Joshi et al. (212) are providing
the initial mechanistic insights for this complex reaction pathway. These
studies enable description of the observed lower selectivity of benzene
compared to toluene and have provided adsorption and activation energies
for kinetic modeling efforts.
3.1.6.
Toluene Disproportionation
The acid catalyzed disproportionation of alkylbenzenes has been exten-
sively investigated. The selective disproportionation of toluene to para-
xylene and benzene exploiting the shape-selective characteristics of ZSM-5
has been studied by several researchers (216–227). A review of this extensive
literature is beyond the scope of this work, and the reader is referred to two
review publications on the disproportionation reaction of alkylbenzenes
(224, 226) for a broader discussion of this topic. We instead comment brieﬂy
only on studies that attempt to probe the mechanism for this reaction.
Three different mechanisms have been proposed for toluene disproportio-
nation viz., (i) the methyl transfer mechanism (ii) the diphenylmethane mech-
anism
and
(iii)
the
dissociative
mechanism.
These
mechanisms
are
schematically depicted in Figure 10.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
56
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Figure 10: (a) Schematic description of the methyl transfer mechanism for toluene
disproportionation adapted from Xiong et al. [222]. Reprinted with permission from [222].
Copyright (1995) American Chemical Society; (b) Schematic description of the
diphenylmethane mechanism adapted from Xiong et al. [222]. Reprinted with permission
from [222]. Copyright (1995) American Chemical Society; (c) Schematic of Alkyl Transfer
mechanism adapted from Uguina et al. [368]. Reprinted with permission from [368]. Copyright
(1993) American Chemical Society.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
57
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Most of the evidence for these mechanisms is derived from ﬁtting kinetic
models for the observed product distribution, however, rigorous interpretation
of the kinetics is difﬁcult due to concurrent coking and deactivation, and hence
time on stream dependence of the observed kinetics. Xiong et al. (222) have
investigated toluene disproportionation over HZSM-5 using a 1:9 molar ratio
of toluene-a, a, a-d3: toluene to determine the mechanism based on the fate
of the deuterium label. A one-to-one stoichiometry for benzene and xylene
was observed in the product stream as well as an equilibrium distribution of
the three xylene isomers. A primary kinetic isotope effect (kH/kD ¼ 1.88) was
noted for the disproportionation reaction and was ascribed by the authors to
a symmetrical linear transition state corresponding to colinearity of the
migrating H between its origin and terminus. Stoichiometric consumption of
diphenylmethane was also observed upon its addition to a toluene feed. The
enhanced rate for reaction upon introduction of diphenylmethane was attribu-
ted to removal of the induction period due to a higher population of chain
carriers. The authors concluded that the large kinetic isotope effect as well
as stoichiometric consumption of diphenylmethane was consistent with mech-
anism (ii).
Rozanska et al. (228, 229) have investigated the intermolecular isomeriza-
tion and transalkylation reaction of aromatic species by acidic zeolites using
computational methods. The direct transalkylation pathway over a 4 T
cluster involves toluene activation to form a phenoxy intermediate, weak
co-adsorption of benzene and reaction of the alkoxy species with the
co-adsorbed benzene. The activation barrier for the direct transalkylation
mechanism was calculated to be 277 kJ/mol. The diphenylmethane intermedi-
ate mechanism is limited by the attack of the zeolite Brønsted acid site on the
methyl group of toluene resulting in the formation of hydrogen and a benzyl
alkoxy species calculated to have an activation barrier of 297 kJ/mol. Sub-
sequent reactions were calculated to be facile as the benzyl alkoxy species is
relatively unstable. Although these calculations do not account for steric
effects of the zeolite, they provide an initial analysis of competitive pathways
involved in transalkylation reactions.
The MTG literature has signiﬁcantly enhanced our understanding of alky-
lation and dealkylation reactions of cyclic species. 13C MAS NMR and theoreti-
cal studies from Haw and coworkers for the conversion of methanol have shown
the existence of persistent cyclopentenyl cations (207, 208, 230, 231). These
NMR measurements, done in a pulse quench reactor, revealed the 1,3-
dimethylcyclopentenyl carbenium ion to be stable on HZSM-5 and the
authors state that the existence of this intermediate eliminates the observed
kinetic induction period. Based on DFT studies for gas phase species at the
B3LYP/6-311G level of theory (207), these authors note that the diene
species formed upon deprotonation of the above-mentioned pentacyclic cation
has a lower activation barrier for methylation compared to ethylene, propylene
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
58
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
or toluene. The facile alkylation and dealkylation reactions of substituted cyclic
species were hence proposed to result in the formation of C-C bonds for MTG
chemistry. Based on a combined NMR and theoretical study of toluene alky-
lation Ivanova and Corma (232) concluded that physisorbed methanol as well
as methoxy species were able to alkylate toluene, with the rate being faster
for the physisorbed methanol species.
Recent theoretical studies by Vos et al. (195, 233) and Arstad et al. (196)
have proposed a concerted reaction pathway for the alkylation of aromatic mol-
ecules by methanol, ethylene and propene with simultaneous adsorption of the
oleﬁn and the aromatic molecule and alkylation occurring by proton transfer to
the alkene with concurrent C-C bond formation between the alkene and the
aromatic molecule. Subsequently, the acid site is regenerated by Hþ donation
from the aromatic molecule to the zeolite cluster. In general, a lower activation
barrier for the alkylation reaction was noted with increasing substitution on
the aromatic molecule and with propylene as the oleﬁnic reactant compared
to ethylene. The above mechanism stands out in that it does not involve the for-
mation of an alkoxide intermediate and reaction is proposed to occur directly
from physisorbed intermediate species. We note again that 4 T clusters were
employed for each of the above studies and suspect that the energies calculated
in the above studies will change when larger clusters or embedded cluster
methodologies are employed.
In summary, although several modiﬁed ZSM-5 formulations have been
developed to enhance the para-selectivity for toluene disproportionation, only
recently theoretical studies have elucidated the novel reaction pathways invol-
ving physisorbed intermediates for alkylation and dealkylation of aromatic
species. We note that the above alkylation and dealkylation reactions could
also represent the disproportionation of alkylaromatics.
3.2.
Kinetic Modeling Studies of Alkane Cracking
As discussed above, hydrocarbon chemistry over acidic zeolites involves a
large number of reactions. Besides alkane activation via a carbocationic tran-
sition state, a number of secondary reactions including hydride transfer,
b-scission/oligomerization, cyclization, etc. are involved. The product distri-
bution for a given feedstock is dependent on the relative rates of elementary
steps under the given reaction conditions and the properties of the solid acid
catalyst. In light of the complexity of crude oil composition and the importance
of ﬂuid catalytic cracking (FCC) to the reﬁning industry, a large number of
studies have been devoted to developing comprehensive and reliable models for
this chemistry to enable extrapolation and optimal plant operation. For an exten-
sive review of the early literature on catalytic cracking the reader is referred to a
review by Corma and Wojciechowski (234). The mechanism of propane aromati-
zation over HZSM-5 catalysts closely resembles that of parafﬁn cracking over
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
59
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
solid acid catalysts. An extensive discussion of parafﬁn cracking mechanisms is
outside the scope of this work however, we present a short review of the
modeling efforts for parafﬁn cracking, before extending this discussion to
modeling of propane aromatization over ZSM-5 based catalysts.
For describing the chemistry of petroleum mixtures with thousands of
distinct molecular species, Quann and Jaffe (235, 236) have developed a
method called Structure-Oriented Lumping (SOL) wherein individual hydro-
carbon molecules are represented as a vector of incremental structural
features. For example, the A6 group represents the six carbon aromatic ring
present in all aromatic molecules, while the A4 group represents a four
carbon aromatic ring increment attached to an A6 group to construct con-
densed multi-ring structures such as naphthalene. These groups can be con-
sidered as basis vectors and hence, each molecule within a mixture can be
represented by a structure vector in terms of this basis. Chemical reactions
can then be considered as vector transformations that map the structure
vector of the reactant to that of the product. Molecular thermodynamic proper-
ties can also be estimated by incorporating existing group contribution
methods within this formalism. The kinetics are based on the stoichiometry
and stability of the reactants and products, implying that the nature of the
solid acid catalyst was not accounted for in this study. This formalism allows
for composition-based modeling of reﬁnery processes containing a very large
number of species (especially considering that a C20 n-parafﬁn generates 417
iso-parafﬁns and 6417 oleﬁns). Subsequent work in this area has resulted in
extending SOL to develop an integrated model for the FCC process incorporat-
ing reaction chemistry, hydrodynamics and heat integration (237) as well as
developing detailed composition based models for predicting octane and
cetane numbers for various gasoline blends (238). Although this approach is
very advantageous for complex petroleum mixtures, for the light parafﬁn aro-
matization system typically such complexity is not encountered. Hence, most
modeling studies have incorporated the catalyst structure into the kinetics in
view of the simpler product distribution.
Researchers (184, 239–247) have employed analysis of selectivity data to con-
struct reaction pathways for alkane cracking over solid acid catalysts. They have
categorized the observed product distribution into six categories: (1) stable
primary, (2) unstable primary, (3) stable primary plus secondary product, (4)
stable secondary, (5) unstable secondary, and (6) unstable primary plus second-
ary. For analysis purposes the authors have employed a number of terms.
1.
Optimum Performance Envelope (OPE): Plots of the time-average yields of
the various products versus total conversion of the reactant. The OPE
describes the behavior of the product as catalyst decay approaches zero.
A product is considered primary if the slope at the origin of such a curve
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
60
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
is non-zero and secondary if the slope is zero when extrapolated to zero
conversion.
2.
Reaction Path Probability (RPP): Procedure of solving the reaction system
matrix to obtain probabilities of various reaction pathways by selecting the
sum of initiation reactions as the objective function in a constrained
solution of the set of linear equations. Since the production of any
product in a complex series-parallel reaction network may involve
several operating elementary reactions, the above formalism appropriately
considers the initial molar selectivity of a product as the sum of contri-
butions from all operating reactions with the RPP of an elementary
reaction being deﬁned as the fraction of total conversion which proceeds
via that one elementary reaction.
3.
Bond Cleavage Probability (BCP): Comparison of the probabilities of
various C-H and C-C bond scissions. Hence, in equation form BCPi¼
RPPi/P
i RPPi.
4.
Kinetic Chain Length (KCL): A ratio of the overall reaction rate to the
initiation rate.
Wojciechowski (248) has presented an excellent review of the above studies
and individually discussed the effects of acid strength, carbon number, and
volume expansion as well as provided a conceptual framework for including
elementary reactions and deactivation pathways in an attempt to quantitat-
ively describe catalytic cracking of hydrocarbons. The work of Zhao et al.
(243–245, 247) has described the reactions of 2- and 3-methylpentane over
USY zeolite in terms of the following reactions.
1.
Chain initiation: by carbonium-ion-like penta-coordinated species includ-
ing C-C and C-H bond cleavage
C6H14 þ HS
k0 C6Hþ
15 !
kin
CnH2nþ1S þ C6nH2ð6nÞþ2
n ¼ 2; 6
2.
Chain transfer: isomerization and b-scission reactions involving carbe-
nium ion intermediates
CnH2nþ1Sþ 
nkin
inkn i  CnH2nþ1Sþ
CjH2jþ1Sþ !
jkin CnH2nþ1Sþ þ C jnH2ð jnÞ
6  j  6 þ n
3.
Chain propagation: bimolecular hydride transfer reactions
CnH2nþ1Sþ þ C6H14 !
nk2j CjH2jþ1Sþ þ C6þnjH2ð6þnjÞþ2
j  n
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
61
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
4.
Chain termination: oleﬁn desorption reactions regenerating the Brønsted
acid site
CnH2nþ1Sþ 
nko
okn CnH2n þ HS
2  n  6
As can be deduced from the above equations, each initiation and chain
propagation event produces one molecule of parafﬁnic product. Thus, the
total selectivity for parafﬁnic products must be at least one. On the other
hand, the sum of oleﬁn selectivities could be less than or greater than one
since oleﬁns appear in all termination reactions and b-scission cracking reac-
tions but no oleﬁns are produced in chain propagation reactions.
The kinetics are interpreted in terms of ﬁve parameters: (i) a parameter
related to the sum of the rates of all initial reactions occurring via both mono-
molecular and chain processes, (ii) a parameter related to the initial rates of
bimolecular processes alone, (iii) a parameter which reﬂects the relative
values of adsorption constants of the reactants and products, and (iv) and (v)
related to modeling the deactivation behavior. For 2-methylpentane cracking
over HZSM-5 signiﬁcant isomerization with little concurrent hydrogen pro-
duction was noted at 673 K while as temperature was increased the contri-
bution of unimolecular reactions was observed to increase. Upon dilution
with nitrogen, the contributions of bimolecular reactions as well as catalyst
decay were observed to decrease and the KCL was observed to decrease from
3.4 to 2.5. In general, hydrogen production was observed to increase upon
branching, and b-scission reactions were found to be of minor importance
in cracking of parafﬁns. For the cracking studies of n-nonane (242), the
coverage and composition of the catalyst was observed to change signiﬁcantly
between 673 and 763 K due to a large difference in the enthalpy of adsorption
between the products and the reactant, however, the contributions from
unimolecular and bimolecular reactions could not be distinguished from the
kinetic data.
For all the above studies, the individual reaction rates were calculated by
taking the product of the RPP and the initial overall rate of consumption of
the reactant. Excellent agreement between experimental data and model pre-
dictions was observed, although only data for the consumption of the reactant
were generally presented. Even though these models allow for understanding
the initial selectivity behavior of the reactant alkane over USY zeolites, due
to the model structure, the individual contributions of the reactions cannot be
interpreted. Corma and coworkers (249, 250) have also reported conclusions
in agreement with Wojciechowski and coworkers for isobutane cracking investi-
gated over USYand cracking of C7, C10, C12, and C14 over USY, BEA, and ZSM-5
zeolites. The relative contribution of unimolecular pathways is observed to
increase with increasing temperature and decreasing pore dimensions.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
62
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Selectivity descriptors like oleﬁn to parafﬁn ratio, linear to branched parafﬁn
and oleﬁn ratios are considered to infer these effects, however, individual
reaction rates also remain inaccessible except for the initial alkane activation
reactions. Two formalisms stand out with regard to interpretation of elementary
reaction kinetics, and we discuss each of them below.
Investigators (251–253) have developed the single-event concept and have
successfully employed this scheme to understand the kinetics of a number of
zeolite-catalyzed oil reﬁning processes. Boolean relation matrices were used
by these researchers to generate the large number of reactions involved. For
octane hydroisomerization and hydrocracking (252) on a Pt-USY zeolite, the fol-
lowing elementary steps were considered: physisorption of feed components in
terms of the Langmuir isotherm, dehydrogenation of oleﬁns over Pt sites,
oleﬁn protonation on Brønsted acid sites yielding carbenium ions which isomer-
ize through hydride- and methyl-shifts and protanated-cylcopropane (PCP)
branchings, and b-scission reactions of these carbenium ions. Dehydrogenation
reactions occurring over metal sites were considered to be in equilibrium and
rate limiting steps were postulated to occur on the acid sites in these models.
Individual site balances for the Brønsted acid and Pt sites were written based
on the pseudo-state state and quasi-equilibrium assumptions. The number of
parameters was reduced by (i) disregarding primary carbenium ions, (ii)
employing thermodynamic constraints for reversible reactions, and (iii) consid-
ering rate coefﬁcients to be independent of chain length for a given carbenium
ion species and only dependent on the nature (secondary or tertiary) of that
species. The single-event rate constant is related to the elementary step rate
coefﬁcient as k0 ¼ ne k implying that the rate coefﬁcient of an elementary step,
k0 is a multiple of that of a single event, k. The number of single events is rep-
resented by ne. The calculation of ne requires the conﬁguration of the reactant
and the transition state to be determined, as it considers the chirality of each
of these conﬁgurations. It was assumed by the authors that the symmetry of
the alkoxide adsorbate and the carbenium-ion-like transition state is perturbed
to the same extent by interaction with the zeolite. We reproduce an example
from Martens and Frorrent (252) for illustration purposes. In Figure 11,
consider the methyl-shift from the 2-methyl-3 pentylcarbenium ion to the
3-methyl-2-pentylcarbenium ion for which in terms of elementary step
kinetics the rate coefﬁcient would be written: kMS0 (s;s).
Figure 11: Illustration of single event kinetics from the work of Froment and coworkers [253].
Reprinted with permission from [253]. Copyright (1999) Elsevier.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
63
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Intuitively, for the forward reaction from left to right, two methyl-groups
can shift, but only one for the reverse reaction from right to left. In other
words: a different value would be calculated for kMS0 (s;s) depending on
which isomer would be chosen for the experimental study. Hence, in addition
to the characterization of the type of the carbenium ion (18, 28, or 38), the struc-
tural multiplicity also needs to be accounted for.
Using replicate experimental data and hence a weighted least squares
objective function, parameter optimization for the octane hydrocracking
study was performed to obtain kinetic parameters. The values of the par-
ameters suggest the following chemistry:
1.
tertiary carbenium ion species are formed more rapidly compared to sec-
ondary
carbenium
ions
on
the
Pt
sites
(kMS(t;t) ¼ 0.43  1011
vs.
kMS(s;s) ¼ 0.18  1010 in (mol/(gcath)); and
2.
the cracking of tertiary carbenium ions to secondary carbenium ions on
acidic sites is rapid, while secondary to tertiary cracking is slow (kcrack(-
t;s) ¼ 0.88  1012 vs. kMS(s;t) ¼ 0.45  1006 in (mol/(gcath)).
The single event approach allows detailed kinetic models to be developed for
cracking on solid acid catalysts. These models are independent of the feedstock
composition and incorporate the basic features of carbocation chemistry. Each of
the studies above, however, focuses on modeling the behavior of the reactant.
For complex hydrocarbon systems, we believe that modeling efforts that also
obtain quantitative predictions for several other products may ensure unique-
ness of the parameters, as well as the model elementary reactions.
Dumesic and coworkers (254) have also employed similar quantitative
modeling concepts and have used the term microkinetic analysis for their meth-
odology. The idea behind microkinetic analysis is “to describe, in terms of essen-
tial surface chemistry, the trends observed in all available data for existing
catalytic systems of relevance to the target catalytic process,” as well as, “to con-
solidate in a quantitative fashion available experimental data, theoretical prin-
ciples, and appropriate correlations relevant to the catalytic process.” The
fundamental starting point in microkinetic analysis is to postulate elementary
reactions that capture the surface catalytic chemistry in terms of physical and
chemical parameters which can be measured independently or estimated by
means of theory. For an excellent review on microkinetic modeling that details
several case studies and identiﬁes various assumptions involved in different
modeling methodologies, the reader is referred to a review by Stoltze (255).
Initial work from Yaluris et al. (256, 257) developed a kinetic model for iso-
butane cracking over Y zeolites. Carbenium ion species were considered as inter-
mediates and a parameter DHþ, the heat of stabilization of a carbenium ion
relative to the heat of stabilization of a proton in the zeolite framework, was
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
64
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
introduced to account for the different acidities of steamed and un-steamed
catalysts. Pre-exponential factors were obtained using transition state theory,
equilibrium constraints were used to obtain the reverse rate constant values
and catalytic correlations like the Polanyi relation were employed to obtain a
relatively simple 21-step-based predictive model for this system.
Sanchez-Castillo et al. (258, 259) and Agarwal et al. (260) have sub-
sequently reﬁned the above model over USY, H-MOR, and H-BEA as well as
extended it to 2-methylhexane cracking. We focus our discussion on the
reaction schemes of isobutane conversion. Reaction studies for isobutane con-
version over USY were performed at a total pressure of one atmosphere for
temperatures of 523 and 573 K. The temperatures used in the earlier work
by Yaluris et al. (256, 257) were between 733 and 773 K, temperatures at
which the reactions were initiated by the activation of isobutane. On the
other hand the low temperature study by Sanchez-Castillo et al. (258)
required initiation by co-feeding 50 to 400 ppm of isobutylene. Unlike the
Yaluris et al. (256, 257) model, this model considers surface intermediates to
be alkoxy intermediates that react via carbocationic transition states, in line
with recent experimental and theoretical studies discussed in section 3.4.
The reaction scheme was developed based on the following reaction types:
adsorption/desorption,
oligomerization/b-scission,
isomerization,
hydride
transfer, and initiation steps. Restricting the carbon number of species partici-
pating in the reaction scheme to 12 resulted in a model containing 370 elemen-
tary reactions. The model was found to have 277 unknowns, including 186 gas
phase species, 90 surface species, and the fraction of vacant sites. Equilibrium
constraints
for
reversible
adsorption/desorption
and
oligomerization/
b-scission cycles, typical pre-exponential factors, equal reactivity of similar
alkoxide intermediate states, and Benson’s group contribution methods (261)
as well as carbon number dependence for the enthalpy of formation of
surface species were employed to reduce the number of bounded parameters
to 11. The Athena Visual Workbench software was employed to obtain par-
ameter estimates and 95% conﬁdence limits.
The results from the kinetic model gave similar activation energies of
156.5 kJ/mol and 154.3 kJ/mol for the two initiation mechanisms to form
isobutyl and propyl surface species, respectively. The activation energies for
the b-scission reaction were calculated to be 102.2 kJ/mol for 38 ! 38 and iden-
tical 115.1 kJ/mol for 28 ! 38 and 28 ! 28 reactions. The activation barrier for
hydride transfer reactions for C.5 was calculated to be 62.2 kJ/mol and based
on the site balance, the surface was found to be have approximately 99% or
greater vacant sites under reaction conditions, even at the lowest tempera-
tures. Kotrel et al. (127, 128, 262) have investigated the cracking of n-hexane
on HZSM-5, H-Y, and H-BEA zeolites and have also commented on the
acidity of these materials. The intrinsic activation barrier calculated for mono-
molecular cracking for n-hexane was calculated from data at low conversions
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
65
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
and found to be 161 kJ/mol which matches well with the values presented by
Dumesic and coworkers. These authors however, point out that only about
15% of the Brønsted acid sites in USY zeolite are catalytically active for this
reaction, whereas Dumesic and coworkers have considered every Brønsted
acid site as an active site. Babitz et al. (126) and Williams et al. (263) have
also investigated the monomolecular cracking of n-hexane over USY, MOR,
and ZSM-5 zeolites and report that apparent differences in activation
energies are due to the different heats of adsorption of n-hexane and, within
experimental error the intrinsic activation energy for n-hexane cracking is
230 kJ/mol, independent of the pore structure. The 11-parameter model
described by Sanchez-Castillo et al. (258) is observed to give good quantitative
ﬁts to the data, however, the trends observed in the experimental data are not
always observed to be described by the model.
The above study also extends to determining the sensitivity of the kinetic
model to various steps in the reaction scheme. We do not discuss here
methods to determine the rate determining step in a reaction mechanism,
and the reader is referred to the following publications for additional details
(264–268). Dumesic and coworkers have used the degree of rate control as
deﬁned by Campbell (264) shown in Eq. (4) where the partial derivative is
taken holding constant the equilibrium constant for step i and the rate con-
stants kj for all other steps j.
Xrc;i ¼
ki
r


dr
dki


ð4Þ
The r refers to the overall rate of the reaction, in this case, the rate of con-
sumption of isobutane. The most sensitive steps were found to involve hydride
transfer of surface species with isobutane and oligomerization/b-scission steps
involving C7 and C8 species. Isobutane activation was found to be kinetically
signiﬁcant only at high temperatures. Based on results from this sensitivity
analysis, the authors were able to deﬁne a simpliﬁed kinetic model that
included only 48 reaction steps. This simpliﬁed kinetic model employs par-
ameters determined from the extended kinetic model and is observed to give
results in general agreement with the full kinetic model.
In an additional study Sanchez-Castillo et al. (259) have extended the
study of isobutane conversion over USY zeolites, to describe isobutane reactiv-
ity over H-MOR and H-BEA zeolites. Under similar reaction conditions, the
kinetic model is again observed to give quantitative predictions, although all
the observed trends in the experimental data are not always emulated by the
model predictions. A tabulated comparison of the obtained kinetic parameters
over the three zeolite structures is shown in Table 1.
From the tabulated values in Table 1, it can be observed that the heat of
adsorption of alkenes is signiﬁcantly higher on H-MOR and H-BEA zeolites.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
66
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
This is also reﬂected in the much higher surface coverage, up to 52% and 63%
on H-MOR and H-BEA respectively, predicted by the kinetic model under the
same reaction conditions. Although the order of magnitude increase in iso-
butane initiation reactions matches up well with experimental studies from
Kotrel et al. (127), the intrinsic activation energies for n-hexane cracking
reported by Kotrel et al. (127) are 161 kJ/mol on USY and 157 kJ/mol on
H-BEA. The 30 kJ/mol difference in the heat of adsorption between USY and
H-MOR is similar to the value reported by Babitz et al. (126), however, the
intrinsic activation energies for n-hexane cracking reported in the latter
study are at least 60 kJ/mol higher than the values reported by Sanchez-
Castillo et al. (259) for isobutane cracking. The high parafﬁn/oleﬁn ratio
observed over H-MOR and H-BEA was attributed by the authors to the lower
composite activation barrier for hydride transfer reactions in these materials.
This explanation however, is derived in the limit of low coverage, a scenario
which may not be applicable in this case. In general, it is observed that due
to the much higher heat of adsorption on H-MOR and H-BEA, the composite
activation barriers are lower for b-scission and hydride transfer reactions,
even though the intrinsic activation energies are higher.
The initial chain mechanism studies by Wojciechowski and coworkers
(239–248) as well as the quantitative modeling ideas presented by Froment
and coworkers (251–253) and Dumesic and coworkers (256–260) have signiﬁ-
cantly enhanced our mechanistic understanding of complicated hydrocarbon
systems on zeolites. Some of these methodologies have been adapted to study
alkane aromatization over HZSM-5 based materials and we describe these
studies below.
Watson et al. (269) have presented a modeling study for the cracking of
n-heptane on HZSM-5 using linear free energy relationships (LFER) for
various reaction families to determine kinetic parameters that would be inde-
pendent of feedstock. Within this formalism, each sterically similar reaction
family for example b-scission, hydride transfer, etc. is deﬁned by a single
Table 1: A comparison of kinetic parameters for isobutane conversion over various
USY, H-MOR and H-b zeolites adapted from Sanchez-Castillo et al. [259]. Energy
values are speciﬁed in kJ/mol.
Parameter
USY
H-MOR
H-b
DH3
290.0
2121.2
2122.2
Einit,H2
156.5
134.5
129.5
Einit,CH4
154.3
134.5
129.5
Eb, 38!38
102.2
120.1
119.2
Eb, 28!28
115.1
123.1
119.2
EHT C3
64.3
77.4
78.5
EHT C.5
62.2
72.1
71.5
Reprinted with permission from [259]. Copyright (2003) Elsevier.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
67
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Arrhenius pre-exponential factor, and its LFER relates the change in acti-
vation energy to a reactivity index (RI). The reactivity index could be associated
with a molecular property of one of the reactants or products, or a property of
the reaction itself, such as the heat of reaction. To account for the inﬂuence of
the catalyst surface on the ionic surface species, a catalyst dependent DHþ par-
ameter was deﬁned, identical to the approach taken by Yaluris et al. (256, 257).
Three different temperatures, 723, 773, and 823 K were studied for a Si/Al
ratio of 21.5 and three different silicon to aluminum ratio materials, 21.5,
35.25, and 63.5, were studied at a temperature of 773 K. The authors noted
an increase in catalytic activity when the Si/Al ratio decreased from 21. 5 to
35.25 and attribute this to enhanced acidity, however; this explanation contra-
dicts observations from several other experimental studies wherein no acidity
change is observed with Si/Al ratio, as discussed in Section 2.1. There was good
agreement between model predictions and experimental data is for n-heptane
cracking, even though this model does not incorporate any features dependent
on the primary, secondary or tertiary nature of the surface species or transition
states.
Lukyanov and coworkers (115, 270–277) have led the way in developing
kinetic models for light parafﬁn and oleﬁn aromatization on HZSM-5
materials. We focus our discussion on two publications (271, 274), the ﬁrst
one discussing ethylene and propylene aromatization and the second one dis-
cussing propane aromatization, over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts that
are particularly relevant.
Experimental data were generated at a hydrocarbon pressure of 1 bar, at a
temperature of 803 K on a HZSM-5 material with Si/Al ¼ 27 for oleﬁn aromati-
zation (at 2-3 minutes on stream to avoid catalyst deactivation) and Si/Al ¼ 40
for propane aromatization. The gallium loading on these materials was 4 wt.%.
The reaction scheme proposed is comprised of 42 components: 9 oleﬁns C2
¼–C10
¼ ,
10 parafﬁns C1–C10, hydrogen, 7 dienes D4–D10, 5 alkylcyclohexenes X6–X10, 5
alkylcyclohexadienes Y6–Y10, and 5 alkylbenzenes A6–A10, where the subscript
index denotes the number of carbon atoms in the component molecule. Individ-
ual Hþ and Ga sites were considered and individual site balances written for
each site, however, it is not apparent whether each gallium site was considered
to compensate for an Hþ site as will be evident from our discussion in Section
4.3. The following reaction steps were considered to occur on Brønsted acid
sites: protolytic cracking and dehydrogenation of C2–C4 parafﬁns, hydride
transfer reactions of adsorbed oleﬁns with propane, protonation of unsaturated
compounds, oleﬁn oligomerization and b-scission, diene formation via hydrogen
transfer between two oleﬁnic molecules, interaction of oleﬁns with dienes to
form higher molecular weight dienes, diene cyclization, and formation of aro-
matics by successive hydrogen transfer reactions. The gallium sites were con-
sidered to participate in alkane activation by dehydrogenation to form
alkenes and hydrogenolysis to generate methane, adsorption/desorption of
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
68
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
unsaturated compounds, dehydrogenation of oleﬁnic compounds to give dienes
and dehydrogenation of napthenic compounds to aromatics. To reduce the
number of reactions, isomers were not considered in this study.
For derivation of the rate equations, it was assumed that adsorption equili-
brium was established and that adsorption constants were independent of mol-
ecular weight. Based on our discussion of adsorption effects in Section 2.2., the
latter assumption appears not to be valid in this case. Carbon number depen-
dence was accounted for by considering various rate constants to be carbon
number dependent. Based on adsorption equilibrium, a relatively simple site
balance could be postulated and the kinetic model could be represented as a
set of 42 equations represented as shown in Eq. (5) where Ri is the rate of trans-
formation of the ith component; yis is the stoichiometric coefﬁcient in the sth
reaction step; rs is the rate of the sth reaction step.
Ri ¼
X
276
n¼1
yisrs
ð1  i  42Þ
ð5Þ
A plug ﬂow reactor model was used and the Gear method was used for
numerical integration of the system of differential equations. Further
reduction of the number of parameters was obtained by considering that (i)
C4–C10 oleﬁns had similar reactivity except for the b-scission reaction, (ii) reac-
tions of cyclic oleﬁns and dioleﬁns for hydride transfer were independent of
carbon number and (iii) the rate of dehydrogenation steps were independent
of molecular weight over the gallium sites.
Data at short contact times (2–3 minutes-on-stream) were used to identify
the initial mechanisms of the light oleﬁn aromatization reaction. Based on the
observed product distribution as a function of contact time, the authors were
able to discern an inhibitory effect of aromatics due to competitive adsorption
as well as postulate C-C bond cleavage on gallium sites based on the high
ethane production for propane aromatization reactions. The inhibitory effect
of aromatics however, was somewhat artiﬁcially accounted for by arbitrarily
increasing the adsorption constant for aromatics by a factor of 30 compared
to oleﬁns with the same carbon number. Based on setting the gallium par-
ameters to be zero, the authors were also able to comment on the relative
importance of gallium sites for various mechanisms. Gallium sites were calcu-
lated to result in the formation of 90% of the dienes and 50% of the aromatic
molecules for propane aromatization. Oleﬁn reactivity in hydrogen transfer
reactions was found to increase from ethene to butenes, with ethene being 11
times less reactive than butenes. For oleﬁn aromatization, the authors ﬁnd
that diene formation via hydrogen-transfer steps on Brønsted acid sites was
rate limiting, however, only relative rate constant values were presented in
this study. The authors account for the decrease in Si/Al ratio for the
propane aromatization study by multiplying each of the rate constants
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
69
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
obtained from the oleﬁn aromatization study by the ratio of appropriate Si/Al
ratios. For propane transformation on HZSM-5, the rate constants for protoly-
tic activation of propane were calculated to be at least 1000 times slower than
the rate constants of diene cyclization steps—the rate limiting step for oleﬁn
aromatization. Based on the rate constant values presented for propane trans-
formation on HZSM-5 the cracking to dehydrogenation ratio on HZSM-5 was
noted to be 2.7. The introduction of gallium was observed to increase the dehy-
drogenation rate constant by a factor of 7, while the protolytic cracking rate
was not observed to be signiﬁcantly altered. Both these observations are in
close agreement with the work of Kwak et al. (117). Good quantitative agree-
ment between model predictions and the experimental data are obtained
based on 30 rate constants for oleﬁn aromatization and an additional 14 rate
constants for parafﬁn aromatization. A recent study from Nguyen et al. (278)
has extended these studies to butane aromatization and has highlighted the
much lower contribution of hydride transfer reactions in propane conversion
due to the slower activation of propane resulting in a lower steady state concen-
tration of oleﬁns.
Although the above studies represent a valuable starting point for develop-
ing complex models for light alkane aromatization, we note that a majority of the
individual rate constants remain inaccessible from a quantitative point of view.
In addition, since the above studies were conducted at a single temperature,
activation energy values cannot be calculated and individual pre-exponential
factors cannot be checked for consistency based on transition state theory.
Since our philosophy for optimal catalyst formulation (279, 280) relies exten-
sively on the validity of the kinetic model and due to the concerns described
above, we have developed a detailed microkinetic model for propane aromatiza-
tion on HZSM-5 catalysts (214) that is brieﬂy described below.
Our model considers surface species to be neutral alkoxides, reactions of
these alkoxides to occur via carbenium-ion-like transition states and alkane
activation via carbonium-ion-like transition states. The carbon number of
species was restricted to 9, as products larger than C9 are typically not
observed in the product distribution, and isomers were not considered in
this study in order to reduce the number of reactions. 311 reactions were
grouped into 37 reaction families and the number of unknown parameters
was reduced to 25 by using adsorption parameters for n-alkanes and relative
rates for b-scission (187) and hydride transfer (198–200) from the literature.
The rates of 10 products were monitored over the following experimental con-
ditions: propane pressure of 1 atmosphere, temperatures in the range 793–
823 K and contact time 0–12 g.-cat h./mol. Replicate data were used to
estimate the pure sum of squared errors for statistical analyses. The model
developed acknowledges the carbon number dependence of alkane adsorption
energetics, considers the existence of methoxy surface species, includes alky-
lation reactions as discussed in Section 3.1.4, as well as postulates the
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
70
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
elementary steps for cyclization and subsequent aromatization by hydride
abstraction reactions. We obtain a quantitative description of these data at
various conversions and obtain tight bounds on all the energetic parameters;
model predictions at 803 and 813 K are shown in Figure 12. The bounds for
the pre-exponential factors are, however, not tight and we attribute this to
lack of parametric detail within each reaction family. Similar to the work of
Dumesic and coworkers, we have also employed to degree of rate control as
a sensitivity measure, and ﬁnd alkane activation to be rate limiting.
Although the Lack-of-ﬁt test (281) suggests scope for model improvement,
the good agreement between experimental data and model predictions over
a wide range of space times and hence conversions suggests that we have
developed a microkinetic model that can describe the activity of Brønsted
acid sites in HZSM-5.
Corma et al. (282) have commented on the limitations of establishing the
contribution of unimolecular and bimolecular reaction pathways for cracking
reactions of long chain linear parafﬁns. They show that to determine the
reaction mechanism based on experimental selectivity, the reactions con-
sidered need to be independent. In the absence of an independent reaction
system, the application of conservation laws results in a linearly dependent
reaction system which generates several independent reaction schemes and
makes it impossible for the contribution of unimolecular and bimolecular reac-
tions to be discerned. We note the above argument might be circumvented, in
case of light parafﬁn cracking, as products like methane and hydrogen do not
undergo secondary reactions and hence, may enable a distinction between
unimolecular and bimolecular reactions. We also comment that the mathemat-
ical derivation presented does not include relative rate considerations available
from modern day computational studies, constraints available from collision
and transition state theory etc., which would help eliminate multiplicity in
models.
In summary, recent quantitative modeling studies of propane aromatiza-
tion in conjunction with computational studies detailing the various elemen-
tary step kinetics of this system have greatly enhanced our understanding of
this chemistry. Propane conversion over HZSM-5 results in the production
of signiﬁcant quantities of methane and ethane. Ideally, the transformation
of light alkanes to aromatics would be accompanied by the generation of
hydrogen. Hence, a metallic component is typically added to enhance the dehy-
drogenation function of the catalyst, and we present a discussion of gallium-
modiﬁed HZSM-5 materials in Section 4.
4.
GALLIUM MODIFIED HZSM-5 CATALYSTS
Among the large variety of metallic components added to HZSM-5 to enhance
the dehydrogenation function of these catalysts, gallium and zinc have been
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
71
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Figure 12: (a) Model predictions for propane aromatization over HZSM-5 at 803 K reproduced
from Bhan et al. [214]. Reprinted with permission from [214]. Copyright (2005) Elsevier; (b)
Model predictions for propane aromatization over HZSM-5 at 813 K reproduced from Bhan
et al. [214]. Reprinted with permission from [214]. Copyright (2005) Elsevier.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
72
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
evaluated to give the best performance. Gallium-containing ZSM-5 formu-
lations are industrially preferred mainly due to the high volatility of zinc,
and our discussion below describes the synthesis and catalytic function of
these Ga-based formulations.
The aromatization of liqueﬁed petroleum gas (LPG) alkanes to aromatics
(mainly benzene, toluene, and xylenes, BTX) on Ga-modiﬁed ZSM-5 catalysts
is commercialized in the Cyclar process jointly developed by UOP and BP. A
large volume of literature starting from the 1980s has discussed the
workings of this catalyst, and we present a tabulated compilation that
describes the method of preparation, pretreatment conditions and the main
conclusions of this literature in Table 2. Speciﬁc aspects of catalyst prep-
aration, characterization, kinetic studies, and catalytic function of gallium-
species on these materials are discussed below.
4.1.
Catalyst Preparation
As presented in Table 2, most gallium modiﬁed formulations are prepared
by impregnating, reﬂuxing, or by mechanical mixing of Ga2O3 and HZSM-5,
with subsequent thermal activation or reduction. Our discussion below
attempts to show that Ga3þ cations, in the as-prepared catalysts, irrespective
of the preparation technique, are re-dispersed under the strongly reducing con-
ditions and high temperatures prevalent during aromatization resulting in the
active formulation of the catalyst.
Wet impregnation of HZSM-5 with gallium salt solutions (Gallium nitrate
in general) guarantees gallium deposition on the catalyst, nevertheless, most of
the gallium is found to be located on the outside of the zeolite crystals as evi-
denced by XPS and electron microscopy studies. In general polyvalent
cations in HZSM-5 zeolites are found to be located preferentially at the outer
surface of crystallites for Me3þ cations and inside the zeolite structure for
Me2þ cations. This difference is ascribed to both enhanced steric and electro-
static hindrances arising for hydrated trivalent cations. A study of zinc and
gallium containing ZSM-5 zeolites by Yakerson et al. (283) to determine the
state of added cations for ethane aromatization by employing pyridine-probe-
molecule IR studies as well as analytical electron microscopy techniques con-
ﬁrmed that Zn2þ cations led to ion exchange and generated Lewis acid sites
while Ga3þ cations did not show any signiﬁcant ion exchange or Lewis
acidity upon deposition. Nowak et al. (284) also conﬁrmed that exchanging tri-
valent cations into ZSM-5 was difﬁcult due to the hydrophobicity of the
materials as well as the weak anionic ﬁeld due to the separation of the Al
sites required for ion exchange.
Electron microscopy studies of catalysts prepared by incipient wetness
impregnation and wet impregnation by Joly et al. (285) revealed that gallium
was mainly located on the outer surface of the zeolite crystallites as thin
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
73
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Aromatization of hydrocarbons over Ga-containing catalysts: Summary of reaction conditions, catalyst formulation,
and ﬁndings.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
n-C5H12, T ¼ 673–873 K, W/
F ¼ 0–100 g h mol21
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 52, 78,
210, 924
Ion exchange resulting in
Ga2O3 ¼ 2.2, 4.1 and
2.3 wt.% on SiO2/Al2O3¼
52, 78 and 210
Not speciﬁed
Sirokman et al. [369]
(i) Yield of aromatics and light hydrocarbons depends on Al content, however selectivity to aromatics at iso-conversion is independent of Al content
(ii) Ga enhances dehydrogenation and conversion of alkenes to aromatics
(iii) Ga does not affect the number of acid sites
C3H8, 1 bar, T ¼ 673–873 K,
W/F ¼ 0–30 g h mol21
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 31
Ion-exchange under
reﬂuxing
Not speciﬁed
Kitagawa et al. [302]
(i) No change in activity beyond Ga loading corresponding to 100% exchange
(ii) Ga does not participate in C3H8 activation but in the aromatization of intermediates
(iii) Acidity is not altered as shown by probe reactions
2% n-C4H10 in Helium,
T ¼ 773 K
—
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 62–280
—
Not speciﬁed
Simmons et al. [370]
Gallosilicate-SiO2/
Ga2O3 ¼ 69–180
Steaming for 1–4 h in 100%
steam
(i) Gallosilicate has lower acidity compared to HZSM-5
(ii) Steaming results in formation of Ga2O3 that signiﬁcantly enhances activity
20% light parafﬁns and 80%
N2, T ¼ 573–923 K, Space
velocity ¼ 2000 h21
Ga2(SO4)3
Gallium silicate
Rapid crystallization
Not speciﬁed
Inui et al. [301]
HZSM-5- Si/Al ¼ 40
Ion-exchange
(i) Amount of Ga may be limited by number of ion-exchange sites
(ii) Bifunctional mechanism for Pt/Ga-silicate
(iii) Mn-, V-, Co-, Cr-, Th- and Ni- exchanged HZSM-5 catalysts are not selective
C3H8 and C3H6, 1 bar, 803 K,
n-C7H16 and
cyclohexane p(N2)/
p(HC) ¼ 9, 723 K and
473 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5- Si/Al ¼ 40-Crystal
size ¼ 1–3 mm
Impregnation reﬂuxing
24 h of 0.1 M soln.
Calcination in dry N2 for
10 h at 803 K
Gnep et al. [351]
74
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(i) Ga is not located at cation exchange positions
(ii) Acidity is not altered by Ga addition
(iii) Ga enhances production of aromatics
(iv) No effect on rate of conversion of C3H6
C3H8, 1 bar, 803 K, 0.50–
80 g (g . hr)21, activity at
2 g (g . hr)21
Ga2O3
HZSM-5
Physical mixture of Ga2O3
and HZSM-5 as well as
Ga2O3
Not speciﬁed
Gnep et al. [352]
(i) Physical mixture behaves like ion-exchanged material
(ii) Gallium oxide dehydrogenates and has no activity for alkylation
C3H8: 760 torr, C3H6: 70 torr,
n-C6
¼: 53 torr, 1,5-
hexadiene and
cyclohexane: 47 torr
Ga2O3
Investigate role of Ga2O3
Precipitation of Ga(NO3)3
with ammonia
Not speciﬁed
Meriaudeau and
Naccache [353]
(i) Low conversion for C3H8 but 36% conversion for n-C6
¼
(ii) Hexadiene and n-C6
¼ are converted to benzene hence Ga2O3 catalyzes cyclization but no C-C cleavage
n-C6H14 either undiluted or
N2/n-C6H14 ¼ 5,
WHSV ¼ 2–4 h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 48
Impregnation
Heated upto 773 K in N2 Kanai and Kowota [337]
Gallosilicate-SiO2/
Ga2O3 ¼ 46
Galloaluminosilicate-SiO2/
Al2O3/Ga2O3 ¼ 78:1:1.3
(i) Ga in extraframework positions is active
(ii) H[Ga,Al]MFI is the most active catalyst
(iii) Dehydrogenation is only rate determining over Ga/HZSM-5 and not over the other formulations
C3H8 and C2H6, P ¼ 1 bar,
873 K, LHSV ¼ 120 h21
Ga and Zn source not
speciﬁed
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Not speciﬁed
Air heated at 573 K for 2 h
and at 793 K for 3 h
Yakerson et al. [283]
(i) Beyond 2 wt.% Ga the activity decreases
(ii) Zn undergoes cation exchange and generates Lewis acidity as evidenced by Pyridine IR while Ga does not initially exchange though it may activate in situ
C3H8 and C3H6, P¼1 bar,
803 K, 0.018 mol/h.
Model reactants: 1-C6
¼,
1-C7
¼, methylcy-
clohexane,
methylcyclo-
hexene
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 40
Physical mixture as well as
pure Ga2O3
Dry N2 at 803 K for 10 h
Gnep et al. [290]
(continued)
75
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
(i) Probe reactions indicate that Ga2O3 is only active for dehydrogenation
(ii) Synergism is observed for Ga2O3 and HZSM-5 mixtures
C3H8, Total P ¼ 123 kPa,
C3H8 ¼ 14 kPa,
WHSV ¼ 1 h21, T ¼ 748–
848 K
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Linde-ELZ-105–6
Ball milling 2, 5, 10% Ga
on elemental basis
He or H2/He
pretreatment: room T
to 393 K (2 K/min),
hold at 393 K for 2 h,
393 to 848 K (1 K/min),
hold at 848 K for 2 h
Price [303]
(i) Zeolite acts as a stoichiometric reductant for gallium species
(ii) H2 reduction is beneﬁcial; Proximity required for gallium reduction
(iii) Ga(I) active species not incorporated in zeolite lattice
(iv) Activation limited by transport of Ga species by vapor phase migration or solid state ion exchange
C4H10, T ¼ 813 K, N2
carrier ¼ 10 ml/min,
WHSV ¼ 0.5 h21
Ga2O3 and Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼19–125 Ga/
Benzonite
Mechanical mixtures of
HZSM-5 and Ga2O3,
and Ga/Benzonite
Impregnation
Not speciﬁed
Yao et al. [289]
(i) Ga helps by reverse spillover
(ii) Ga/Benzonite materials extruded with HZSM-5 catalysts are effective for aromatization
C4H10, T ¼ 813 K, N2
carrier ¼ 10 ml/min,
WHSV ¼ 0.5 h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼19–71
Impregnation
Not speciﬁed
Le van Mao et al. [288]
Ga on: Silica, quartz and
activated alumina
(i) Hydrogen back spillover from the zeolite to gallium on supported co-catalysts
(ii) Ga supported on various co-catalysts is active
C3H8, P¼1 bar, 623–873 K,
1.21025 mol s21 g21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 23
Impregnation
Not speciﬁed
Khodakov et al. [338]
Gallosilicate-Si/Ga ¼ 30
(i) Upon successive regeneration in air degalliation of Ga-MFI results in active catalysts due to formation of extraframework Ga species
C3H8, P¼1 bar, 773 K, 0.5–8 l
h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Incipient wetness
impregnation to 5 wt.% Ga
Slow heating in ﬂowing
oxygen to 773 K
Meriaudeau and
Naccache [354]
Na/ZSM-5
(i) 100-fold increase in dehydrogenation for Ga/Hþ compared to Ga/Naþ
(ii) Gallium oxide activates the C-H bond giving Ga-hydride and Ga-alkoxide
76
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
C3H8, Total P ¼ 123 kPa,
C3H8 ¼ 14 kPa, 803 K
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Linde-ELZ-105–6
Ball milling for 3 h. 2, 5, 10%
Ga on elemental basis
He or H2/He
pretreatment: T ¼ 843
K for 2 h
Kanazirev [287]
(i) Catalysts treated in He show enhancement in performance with time-on-stream
(ii) H2/He reduced catalysts do not show this behavior
H2 and D2, 573 K
a-Ga2O3
Precipitation of Ga(NO3)3
with ammonia
Calcined in O2
Meriaudeau and Prirnet
[350]
(i) IR experiments show that H2 is dissociatively activated by Ga2O3 at T ¼ 573 K as conﬁrmed by D2 experiments
C2H6, Total P ¼ 1 Atm.,
C2H6 ¼ 80 kPa and
N2 ¼ 20 kPa, 823–973 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O and
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15, 25, 34, 50,
75 and 95-Ga loading 1.5
to 6 wt.%
Ion-exchange
Calcined in O2. Before
reaction the reactor was
purged with N2
Schulz and Baerns [349]
Physical mixture
Incipient wetness
(i) Ga enhances activity irrespective of the method of preparation
(ii) No enhancement in activity beyond 3 wt.% Ga
(iii) Ga2O3 on the external surface acts as dehydrogenation catalyst
IR investigation to
determine mobility of
Gallium species
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Incipient wetness: 2.5 and
5 wt.% Gallium
Calcined in O2.
Subsequent treatment
in H2 or O2
Meriaudeau and
Naccache [371]
(i) Reduction in 3610 cm21 band and increase in the 3660 cm21 band provides evidence for Gallium oxide surface mobility
CH3H8, T ¼ 823 K
Comparison of wet
impregnation and
incipient wetness
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 23, 27, 40 and
140
Wet impregnation at
different pH values (0.7
–3.7 wt.% Ga)
Si/Al ¼ 40
(Ga ¼ 3.1 wt.%) and Si/
Al ¼ 140 (Ga ¼ 2.8 wt.%)
Joly [285]
Incipient wetness, pH ¼ 2,
3.5 wt.% Ga on Si/
Al ¼ 27
Reduced in H2 (5 wt.% H2 in
N2) at 823 K
(i) Incipient wetness results in smaller Ga2O3 particles and a more homogeneous distribution
(ii) Ga content is controlled by pH, reduction is controlled by Al content
(iii) Ga reduction causes migration within zeolite pores as evidenced by TEM
(continued)
77
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
C4H10, Total P ¼ 1 Atm., N2/
n-C4H10 ¼ 2.3,
WHSV ¼ 2.5–17 h21,
T ¼ 753–813 K
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Synthesized-Si/
Al ¼ 36-2 mm
Ion-exchange
Not speciﬁed
Le Van Mao [120]
Cyclar type
Impregnation/reﬂuxing
Hybrid catalyst
Mechanical mixing:
zeolite þ Ga/SiO2 co-
catalyst
(i) Aromatization performance HZSM-5 , Ga/ZSM-5 (Cyclar-type) , hybrid catalyst
(ii) Activation energy ¼ 100 kJ/mol on all catalysts
(iii) Ga helps by reverse hydrogen spillover mechanism
Microbalance reduction
experiments to
determine the oxidation
state of Ga
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O and
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5 and Na/ZSM-5-SiO2/
Al2O3 ¼ 40
Incipient wetness and
physical mixtures by ball
milling b-Ga2O3
Heated in He to 880 K
held for 3 h and
cooled to 848 K in
125 ml/min He.
Reduction
experiments in 25 ml/
min H2 þ 100 ml/min of
He
Price and Kanazirev [355]
(i) Stoichiometric reduction of Ga/HZSM-5 while no reduction for Ga/Na-ZSM-5
C4H10, T ¼ 773 K, P ¼ 1 Atm. Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 56
Ion-exchange-1.9 wt.%
Ga-353 K, 24 h
Heated in air at 823 K for
90 min
Ono and Kunihiko [372]
(i) 80–85% dehydrogenation on cationic center
(ii) Ga acts to efﬁciently dehydrogenate intermediate oleﬁns to aromatics
C3H8, T ¼ 873 K, P ¼ 1 Atm.,
WHSV ¼ 4.5 h21
Ga(NO3)3 . xH2O
USY-LZY 82 (Union Carbide)
Ion-exchange-5.6% Ga
Brought to reaction
temperature in ﬂowing
dry N2
Buckles et al. [373]
78
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(i) Gallium dehydrogenates only in presence of Hþ
N2/C8 aromatics ¼ 3,
WHSV ¼ 1.5 hr21, 553 K
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Linde-ELZ-105–6
Ball milling. 2% Ga on
elemental basis
- Heated in air to 773 K,
followed by treatment
in N2.
Kanazirev et al. [304]
n-C5H12 ¼ 3.9 kPa
WHSV ¼ 1.8 h21,
T ¼ 693–773 K
-Additional 1.5 h in H2 at
773 K
(i) Addition of Ga without reduction does not enhance activity
(ii) H2 pre-treatment results in higher conversion of C8 aromatics
(iii) IR experiments show reduction of Ga species: decrease in 700 cm21 band
C4H10, T ¼ 723 K, P of
C4H10 ¼ 20 kPa, W/
F ¼ 10 g hmol21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 50
Impregnation 1.5 and
5 wt.% Ga
Calcined for 3 h
Fujimoto et al. [374]
g-Al2O3
(i) Crushed physical mixture of Ga/Al2O3 and ZSM-5 gives enhanced activity while granular materials did not
(ii) Gallium helps through reverse spillover of hydrogen atoms as demonstrated by H2 inhibition observed for Ga based materials and not for HZSM-5
IR study to determine effect
of hydrogen pre-
treatment
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Linde-ELZ-105–6
Ball milling for 3 h
Dehydrated in vacuo.
Reduction with 300
torr of H2 at T ¼ 783 K,
spectra at RT
Kanazirev et al. [305]
(i) Signiﬁcant reduction in the 3610 cm21 band upon H2 treatment at high temperatures
C3H8, T ¼ 873 K,
WHSV ¼ 4.7 h21
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O and
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-synthesized-SiO2/
Al2O3 ¼ 35, 185 and 280
Ion-exchange or physical
mixing
Not speciﬁed
Buckles et al. [318]
(i) Synergism between acid and gallium sites
(ii) Ga2O3 polarizes C-H and C-C bonds at the interface of Ga2O3 and the zeolite
He/C3H8 ¼ 2, P¼1 bar, 803
K, WHSV ¼ 2 h21
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 30
Physical mixture with
Ga2O3 and GAPSO-11
Not speciﬁed
Bayense et al. [339]
(continued)
79
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
Model reactants: 1-C6
¼,
1-C7
¼, cyclohexane,
cyclohexene,
WHSV ¼ 0.7 h21, 873 K
HY-Si/Al ¼ 2.1
Impregnation
Gallosilicate-Si/Ga ¼ 30, 45
Steam treatment for 3, 6,
12, 24 h at 923 K
GAPSO-11-Ga ¼ 5.5 wt.%
(i) Ga enhances activity irrespective of the method of preparation
(ii) Ga possesses dehydrogenation activity only in presence of Hþ
(iii) Extraframework Ga species in conjunction with Brønsted sites are active
(iv) Ga acts as a Lewis acid site for hydride abstraction
IR study to determine
nature of active sites
b-Ga2O3 and Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Linde-ELZ-105–6-SiO2/
Al2O3 ¼ 25
Ball milling to get 2 and
5 wt.% Ga.
Reduction at 840 K for 2 h Kanazirev [306]
HZSM-5 and NaZSM-5-SiO2/
Al2O3 ¼ 38
Impregnation to get 2 and
5 wt.% Ga
Gallosilicate
(i) CO probe molecule IR experiments show a band at 2155 cm21 ascribed to Gaþ1 not observed in Ga/NaZSM-5 or Ga2O3
Short chain alkanes; variety
of experimental
conditions. Review
Various Ga sources
HZSM-5
Different techniques.
Review
Various
Guisnet et al. [1]
(i) Extraframework Ga species are active
(ii) Ga reduction in H2 or during reaction leads to Ga migration
(iii) Brønsted acid sites oligomerize and cyclize, while Ga sites dehydrogenate
C3H8 (WHSV ¼ 1.3), C2H6
(WHSV ¼ 1.0): 12%
parafﬁn in He, Total P ¼ 1
bar
b-Ga2O3 and Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-UOP-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 40 -Ball milling to produce
5 wt.% Ga.
30% H2/He: 373 K for 2 h,
373 –848 K at 1 K/min,
848 K for 2 h
Dooley et al. [286]
-Ion-exchange to produce
5 equiv.
- Exchanged/physically
mixed material
80
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(i) Ga3þ/Gaþ redox pair is formed which may be the optimal formulation
(ii) Reduction is incomplete at 848 K but complete at 893 K
(iii) Ion-exchange initially results in [Ga(OH)2]þ which is reduced to Gaþ
(iv) Similar performance for ion-exchange and physical mixture catalysts
C3H8, 773–823 K, P ¼ 1
Atm., High space velocity
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15 and 30
Ion-exchange
(i) O2 at 773 K
Meriaudeau et al. [365]
(ii) O2 followed by H2 at
773 K
(iii) O2-H2 followed by O2
at 773 K
Incipient wetness (0.5 and
5 wt.%)
(i) Experimental veriﬁcation of optimum Ga/Hþ ratio
(ii) Ga migrates under H2, high Ga loading implies over-exchange and hence loss in activity
(iii) Active site is Gaxþ/Hþ pair
C3H8, 763, 793 and 823 K,
P ¼ 1 Atm., WHSV ¼
2–10 h21
Not speciﬁed
HZSM-5
Ion-exchange
Not speciﬁed
Harris et al. [375]
Pilot plant: 180, 400 and
800 kPa, 763, 793 and
823 K WHSV ¼ 2–7 h21
(i) Microreactor and pilot plant data are well described by unimolecular kinetics with Eact ¼ 81 and 86 kJ/mol
(ii) Non-isothermal behavior in pilot plant due to endothermic reaction
Modiﬁcation of pentasils by
metal oxides and
characterization by XPS
and IR to determine
location of cations
Zn, Ga, Mn, Cr, Co, Fe, Ni,
Sc, Al, and Mg nitrate
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 19
Impregnation using 0.5 N
aqueous solution to
give 1 wt.% for Mn, Cr,
Co, Fe, Ni, Sc, Al, and
Mg and 1.5 wt.% for Ga
and Zn
Calcination in air up to
720 K
Stakheev et al. [307]
(continued)
81
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
(i) XPS, H2 probe molecule IR experiments suggest that hydrated trivalent cations are unable to enter the micropores of H-MFI while bivalent cations can enter the pores
C3H8, T ¼ 803 K,
GHSV ¼ 2.3–17.7 h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 23, 40 and 140 Wet impregnation at
different pH values (0.7
–3.7 wt.% Ga)
Si/Al ¼ 40 and 140-
Reduced in H2 (5 wt.%
H2 in N2) at 823 K
Joly et al. [376]
Alumina Gallosilicate
Incipient wetness, pH ¼ 2,
3.5 wt.% Ga on Si/
Al ¼ 27
(i) Ga migration inside zeolite pores by hydrogen reduction as evidenced by TPR and TEM
(ii) Ga/Al2O3 does not reduce, while Ga/HZSM-5 does
(iii) Zero activation time for reduced catalyst
C3H8, Total P ¼ 1 Atm., C3H8
P ¼ 26.6 kPa, T ¼ 773 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 14.5
Ion-exchange at 353 K
H2 at 823 K for 6–8 h
Iglesia et al. [362]
(i) High hydrogen surface fugacity limits this reaction
(ii) Ga ions increase aromatics selectivity by providing a “porthole” for removal of hydrogen adatoms as dihydrogen
H2 sorption to determine
the nature of the gallium
species
Ga(NO3)3
Hybrid catalyst: HZSM-5-Si/
Al ¼ 36
Mixture of Ga on Ludox
colloidal silica and
HZSM-5
Not speciﬁed
Carli et al. [377]
(i) Partial surface transfer of gallium upon drastic reduction and/or by solid state ion-exchange creates strong H2 adsorption sites
C3H6, 773, and 923 K
d-Ga2O3
HZSM-5 and NaZSM-5
Calcined with Ga2O3 at
773 K for 6 h
N2 and H2 pre-treatments Jia et al. [308]
(i) H2 pre-treatment causes Ga migration
(ii) Ga3þ is not reduced by this treatment in H2
CD4-C3H8 and C3D8-C3H8,
13CH4-C3H8, T ¼ 773 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5- Si/Al ¼ 14.5
Impregnation-2 wt.% Ga
Calcined at 623 K for 3 h,
reduced in ﬂowing H2
at 823 K for 1 h
Iglesia and Baumgartner
[132]
(i) Alkane conversion to aromatics is limited by rate of disposal of H-adatoms formed upon C-H activation
C3H8, T ¼ 773 K, P ¼ 1 Atm.,
WWH ¼ 2 h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 30
Not speciﬁed
Giannetto et al. [309]
82
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
n-C7H16, T ¼ 773 K, N2/n-
C7H16 ¼ 4, Total P ¼ 1
bar, WWH ¼ 5–200 h21
Gallosilicate-Si/Ga ¼ 72.8
Heated in dry air at 803
and 1023 K
(i) High temperature treatment causes a partial extraction of framework gallium (T ¼ 1023 K). These species are highly active for dehydrogenation
(ii) Ga species upon degalliation migrate inside the zeolite pores as evidenced by XPS
C3H8 (WHSV ¼ 1.3), C2H6
(WHSV ¼ 1.0): 12%
parafﬁn in He, Total P ¼ 1
bar
b-Ga2O3 and Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-UOP-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 40
-Ball milling to produce
5 wt.% Ga.
30% H2/He: 373 K for 2 h,
373 –848 K at 1 K/min,
848 K for 2 h
Dooley et al. [310]
-Ion-exchange to produce
5 equiv.
-Exchanged/physically
mixed material
(i) Initial reduction is incomplete, reoxidation does not regenerate crystalline b-Ga2O3
(ii) Optimal catalyst obtained after 1 reduction and 1 oxidation treatment
(iii) Reduction helps in gallium redispersion
C3H8, 1 bar, T ¼ 803 K
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 40
Ball milling
H2 or N2 for 10 h at 873 K Barre et al [358]
C7H16, N2/C7 ¼ 9, Total
P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 623 K
m-Xylene, N2/m-X ¼ 4,
Total P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 623 K
Methylcyclohexane,
T ¼ 773 K, N2/MCH ¼ 4,
Total P ¼ 1 bar
(i) Reductive pretreatment enhances dehydrogenation activity
(ii) Hydrogenolysis activity is also present as evidenced by the large amount of CH4 produced upon reacting methylcyclohexane
(iii) Decrease in number of acid sites evidenced by decrease in m-Xylene isomerization
XPS study of the reduction
behavior of Ga2O3/
HZSM-5 catalyst
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 32
Ultrasonication of Ga2O3
and HZSM-5 followed by
vacuum drying
H2 reduction at various
temperatures
Carli et al. [294]
(i) XPS evidence for reduction of Ga3þ to Gaþ1 at temperatures below that expected for Ga2O3
(ii) At T . 773K a stoichiometric reduction with the zeolite lattice occurs, however at lower T the zeolite activates H2 to reduce the Ga2O3
(continued)
83
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
Characterization of Ga
species produced by
sublimation of GaCl3 in
Ga/HZSM-5
GaCl3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼16
Sublimation
Not speciﬁed
Kwak and Sachtler [299]
(i) Higher ratio of gallium exchange using sublimation compared to ion-exchange
(ii) The nature of the TPR proﬁle for the reduced-reoxidized sample is signiﬁcantly different from the parent sample
C3H8, Total P ¼ 1 Atm., C3H8
P ¼ 8–101 kPa with N2 as
diluent, T ¼ 773 K
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Impregnation
1 h under H2 then 1 h
under O2 repeated
twice
Meriaudeau et al.[364]
H2 co-feed with C3H8
(8 kPa) and N2
Gallosilicate-Si/Ga ¼ 45
Steamed at 823 K for 2.5 h
with H2O
pressure ¼ 10 kPa
(i) Orders of reaction -HZSM-5: C3H8 ¼1, H2 ¼ 0; - Ga/ZSM-5: C3H8 ¼ 0.65, H2 ¼ negative
(ii) Acid strength has no effect on selectivity of protolytic cracking and dehydrogenation
(iii) H2 is dissociatively adsorbed over extraframework Ga species
C3H8, Total P ¼ 1 Atm., C3H8
P ¼ 26.6 kPa, T ¼ 773 K
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 14.5
(Zeochem)
Impregnation
Calcined in air at 623 K
for 2 h and pretreated
in H2 or propane in situ
during XAS and
catalytic experiments
Meitzner et al. [311]
(i) Ga3þ species initially present reduce at temperatures below 770 K during H2 pretreatment or propane reactions
(ii) Reduced Ga is highly dispersed probably in the form of monomeric hydride species
(iii) Reduced Ga species oxidize at room T even in presence of H2
(iv) Ga species help in recombinative desorption of H2
C3H8, T ¼ 823 K, P ¼ 1 Atm.,
WHSV ¼ high
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 18
Impregnation
Successive reductive
and oxidative
treatments for 1 h at
823 K
Meriaudeau [378]
(i) Pyridine probe molecule IR experiments suggest that initial calcination of the Ga impregnated salt does not change the number of Brønsted sites, on the other hand
the ﬁrst reducing treatment alters it signiﬁcantly
(ii) Higher percentage of Brønsted sites are deactivated with time-on-stream compared to Lewis sites generated by Gallium impregnation
84
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
C3H8, T ¼ 803 K, P ¼ 1 Atm.,
WHSV ¼ 456 h21 Ar/
C3H8 ¼ 1:1
GaCl3
HZSM-5 - Si/Al ¼ 20.5 (UOP)
Chemical vapor
deposition (CVD)
Calcined: room T to 473 K
(0.25 K/min), held or 2 h;
heated to 773 K (0.5 K/
min) and held for 2 h
Calcined in O2 for 1 h
and reduced in H2 for 2 h
at 853 K for all Ga
containing samples
Kwak [347]
C3H6, T ¼ 803 K, P ¼ 1 Atm.
WHSV ¼ 2156 h21 Ar/
C3H6 ¼ 1:1
Disproportionation of
toluene, T ¼ 673 K,
saturation pressure at RT
(i) Brønsted acidity is reduced upon Ga introduction as GaOþ species exchange with protons, commensurate with decrease in toluene disproportionation reactivity
vs. Ga content
(ii) Optimum Ga ratio for production of aromatics as Ga sites do not cyclize or oligomerize
(iii) Ga introduces Lewis sites that are involved in dehydrogenation
C3H8 (N2 or H2 co-
feed ¼ 4:1), T ¼ 873 K,
10 ml/min
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 35
Physical mixing
Heated to reaction
temperature in N2
Buckles and Hutchings
[319]
(i) Reversible formation of active site
(ii) H2 co-feeding has detrimental effect on Ga-modiﬁed catalysts and does not effect HZSM-5
MAS NMR spectra of C3H8
(2-13C) reactants at
298 K after rapid cooling
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 35
Ion-exchange
Calcined in air and
subsequently N2 at
823 K
Derouane et al. [316]
(i) Evidence for formation of CH3
þ species
(ii) Brønsted acid sites activate via a protonated pseudo cyclo-propane intermediate
(iii) Gallium introduction involves activation by a bifunctional pathway
n-C4H10, i-C4H10, n-C5H12,
i-C5H12, neo-C5H12, Total
P ¼ 1 Atm., Alkane
P ¼ 8 kPa, T ¼ 773 K,
WHSV ¼ 0–0.2 g h mol21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 43.5
Impregnation
Calcined in air at 823 K
for 90 minutes
Ono et al. [348]
Ag(NO3)
Zinc acetate
(i) Zn and Ga enhance C-H as well as C-C bond cleavage, while Ag only enables C-H bond activation
(ii) Alkane activation on metal modiﬁed materials occurs by hydride abstraction and is governed by stability of the carbenium ion formed
(continued)
85
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
m-Xylene, Total P ¼ 1 Atm.,
m-Xylene P ¼ 0.23 kPa,
T ¼ 453–603 K
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 13 and 60
Incipient wetness
Prior to IR measurements
(i) O2 pre-treatment
overnight at 873 K or
(ii) H2 pre-treatment
for 12 h
Meriaudeau [379]
(i) Decrease in number of Brønsted acid sites upon Ga introduction as evidence by m-Xylene isomerization rate
(ii) Ga migrates within the zeolite in reduced form
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 748–
833 K, Pure feed
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 18 and 128
Ion-exchange at pH ¼ 2.0
and T ¼ 373 K
Regeneration cycles
involve heating in air
up to 823 K
Abdul Hamid et al. [314]
(i) Ga migration and redispersion is favored under reducing conditions
(ii) Catalytic activity is highest when a non-framework dispersed gallium phase is present in the highest amount
(iii) XPS, Rutherford backscattering and EDX evidence for Ga migration into the zeolite upon reduction
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 803 K,
WHSV ¼ 3–8600 h21
GaCl3 and
[Pt(NH3)4)](NO3)2
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 20.5 (UOP)
-Pt ion exchange
(4.25 wt.%) Ga samples
prepared by CVD (0.7,
1.9 and 1.4 wt.%)
Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts
calcined for 1 h in O2
and reduced for 2 h in
H2 at 853 K. All other
samples at 773 K
Kwak [117]
(i) The relative rate of initial propane conversion increases in the order H , Ga , PtGa(H) ,,Pt
(ii) The rate of protolytic cracking is unaffected by metal addition
(iii) Pt deactivates signiﬁcantly faster than Ga
(iv) Signiﬁcant ethane production by hydrogenation of ethylene due to metals
Short chain alkanes, variety
of experimental
conditions. Review
Various Ga sources
HZSM-5
Different techniques.
Giannetto et al. [340,380]
Review
Various
(i) Reduction of Ga occurs only in presence of acid sites
(ii) Ga does not reside at cation exchange positions because acid sites are required for oligomerization and cyclization
86
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
C3H8 (N2 or H2
cofeed ¼ 1:1), T ¼ 673–
773 K, W/F ¼ 1–15 g h/
mol
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
Gallosilicate-Si/Ga ¼ 25–150
—
773 K in H2 for 1 h.
Vargas, et al. [381]
(i) Total activity increases with Ga content
(ii) H2 co-feed reduces the selectivity to aromatics compared to N2 co-feed
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 803 K,
Contact time ¼ 10–500
 1023 h
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 40
Impregnation
Not speciﬁed
Guisnet and Lukyanav
[276]
C3H6, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 803 K,
Contact time ¼ 1–40 *
1023 h
Probe reactions:
methylcyclohexane,
T ¼ 773 K
(i) Kinetic modeling results similar to Lukyanov et al. [115]
(ii) High temperature treatment causes degalliation; these extraframework Ga species are active for dehydrogenation
(iii) H2 pretreatment increases dehydrogenation and hydrogenolysis activity
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 748–
833 K Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 18
Ion-exchange at pH ¼ 2.0
and T ¼ 373 K, t ¼ 4 h
Calcination and
regeneration cycles in
N2 and air up to 823 K
Abdul Hamid et al. [312]
(i) Selectivity at iso-conversion suggests higher C3
¼ and same aromatics value.
(ii) Apparent activation energies for cracking and dehydrogenation 25.9 and 24.7 kcal/mol, respectively
C2H6,C2H4, 1-hexene, 1,5-
hexadiene 1015–1017
molecules/pulse
between 373–923 K
Not speciﬁed
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Impregnation
Calcined in vacuo at a
slow rate
Keipert and Baerns [382]
(i) TAP studies show that gallium is required for ethane activation at 873 K
(ii) 1-C6
¼ and 3-methyl-1-pentene are not intermediates for benzene formation
C3H6 or C2H4, P¼1 bar,
T ¼ 803 K
Not speciﬁed
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 40
Ion-exchange (4 wt.% Ga) Not speciﬁed
Lukyanov et al. [271]
(i) Kinetic model developed for Brønsted and Ga sites
(ii) Ga active for dehydrogenation of oleﬁns and napthenes and hydrogenolysis reactions
(continued)
87
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
Reactive adsorption of
methylamines on Ga
modiﬁed HZSM-5 to
characterize Ga species
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 40
(UOP)
Incipient wetness (Ga/
Al ¼ 0.95)
He or 25% H2/He mixture
at 100 cm3 min21 at
848 K prior to amine
adsorption
Kanazirev et al. [383]
(i) Based on reactive adsorption as proposed by Gorte and coworkers show that Ga modiﬁes the zeolite by cation exchange
(ii) Ga results in the formation of Lewis acid centers that coordinate with the amine
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 748–
833 K
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 18
Ion-exchange at pH ¼ 2.0
and T ¼ 373 K, t ¼ 4 h
Calcination and
regeneration cycles in
N2 and air up to 823 K
Abdul Hamid et al. [313]
(i) Reversible deactivation either by site removal or pore blockage
(ii) Irreversible deactivation by framework calcination and Ga migration
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 803 K
Not speciﬁed
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 27
Impregnation (4 wt.% Ga) Not speciﬁed
Lukyanov et al. [274]
(i) Kinetic model developed for alkenes extended to include alkanes: alkane activation is rate limiting
(ii) Hydrogenolysis occurs on Ga sites
C3H8, T ¼ 773 K
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 16
Impregnation 22.5 and
5 wt.% Ga
(i) O2 pre-treatment: 293
to 873 K (2 K/min), and
maintained at 873 K for
8 h before cooling to
reaction temperature. (ii)
H2 pre-treatment: after
oxidation was reduced
at 873 K overnight and
then cooled to reaction
temperature
Meriaudeau and
Naccache [384]
Ethylbenzene,
T ¼ 623–723 K
(i) Dual site mechanism
(ii) Acid and Ga sites required for effective transformation to aromatics
88
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
C2H6 ¼ 0.1 to 0.8 bar,
H2 ¼ 0.1–0.7 bar with
C2H6 ¼ 0.2 bar, N2
diluent. T ¼ 873–923 K,
mcat/Vo ¼ 0.05–
3.2 g s mol21 with N2/
C2H6 ¼ 4
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Impregnation to get
3 wt.% Ga
Not speciﬁed
Keipert et al. [385]
(i) Lumped kinetic model that considers back-spillover over Ga sites
(ii) Bifunctional mechanism
(iii) Methane not formed by hydrogenolysis of ethane
C2H6, P ¼ 12 kPa, Total
P ¼ 123 kPa T ¼ 843 K,
WHSV ¼1.0 h21
Ga(NO3)3 . 9H2O
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 40
Impregnation and
physical mixture
(i) Catalysts reduced in a
30% H2/70% He mixture
at 848 K for 3 h for
impregnated catalysts
and 18 h for physical
mixtures. (ii)
Reoxidation for 2 h at
823 K in 30% O2
Dooley et al. [317]
(i) Small percentage of acid sites sufﬁcient for high activity
(ii) Ga located at cation exchange sites
(iii) Addition of small amounts of O2/H2O to reduced Ga/H-MFI catalysts regenerates acid sites and gives optimal activity
(iv) Original gallium oxide species is not regenerated upon oxidation as the re-oxidation is really fast
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, 823 or
873 K, Co-feed NO, N2,
H2 and O2 in the ratio 4/1
Ga(NO3)3 and Ga2O3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 35 and
280
Ion-exchange and
physical mixtures
Heated in N2 upto
reaction temperature
Buckles and Hutchings
[295]
(i)H2 inhibits Ga/ZSM-5 but not HZSM-5
(ii) NO decreases rate of aromatization, while O2 enhances the rate as well as the deactivation
(iii) Propane is activated at the interface of Ga2O3 and the Brønsted acid site
(continued)
89
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, 773 K
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Physical mixture
(i) A: Calcined in O2 at
773 K (ii) B:
A þ calcination at
873 K (iii) C:
B þ reaction of C3H8
for 5 min at 873 K (iv)
D: B þ reduction in H2
for 5 min at 873 K
Meriaudeau and
Naccache [293]
(i) Signiﬁcant difference in activity on the O2 treated sample and the sample subjected to 5 min. time-on-stream
(ii) 5 min. time-on-stream at 873 K gives catalytic performance similar to H2 reduction at 873 K
Reply to Meriaudeau et al.
[293]
Ga2O3
HZSM-5
Physical mixture
Heated to 873 K in N2
Buckles and Hutchings
[320]
(i) Much lower molar ratio of reactants/Ga2O3 may not result in synergistic activation as observed by Meriaudeau et al. [320]
n-C6H14, T ¼ 773 K,
P ¼ 1 Atm.,
WHSV ¼ 1.6 g (g
cat. h)21
Not speciﬁed
HZSM-5-Si/Al not speciﬁed-
Physical mixture: Ga/
SiO2 þ HZSM-5
Not speciﬁed
O2 and H2 pre-
treatments at 793 K
Chang and Lee [328]
(i) Temperature programmed reduction studies provide evidence for a reduced Ga species (not Ga2O)
(ii) H2 pre-treatment improves performance
C3H8, Total P ¼ 123 kPa,
C3H8 ¼ 14 kPa, T ¼ 803 K
Ga and In oxides
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 43 (PQ)-
SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 40 (UOP)
Ball milling followed by
reduction at 848 K (Ga)
or 673 K (In)
H2 reduction
Dooley et al. [298]
(i) Catalytic behavior depends on whether the material is unsegregated to start with, segregated but ‘locked’, or initially segregated but dispersed such that Ga
migration may occur in situ
(ii) Reduced catalysts give far higher activity than segregated materials or unsegregated but unreduced materials
(iii) Optimal loading of Ga/Hþ exits
(iv) Indium loses activity at high T due to reduction to In0
n-C4H10, 14 ml/min,
WHSV ¼ 0.5 h21,
T ¼ 573–650 K
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 32 Ga/SiO2-
Ludox
Mechanical mixtures of
HZSM-5 and Ga2O3,
and Ga/SiO2
Heated to operating
temperature under N2
(10 ml/min)
Carli et al. [297]
90
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(i) Reductive solid state ion exchange is not effective at T , 673K
(ii) Ga2O3 has dehydrogenation activity
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, 823 or
873 K, Co-feed NO, N2,
H2 and O2 in the ratio 4
to 1
Ga(NO3)3 and b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 35, 185
and 280
Ion exchange and
physical mixtures
Heated to reaction
temperature in N2
Buckles and Hutchings
[296]
(i) H2 inhibits Ga/HZSM-5 but not HZSM-5
(ii) Active site in physical mixtures is Ga3þ cations in Ga2O3 in proximity of Brønsted sites
(iii) Central role of Ga2O3 is to polarize the C-H bond
(iv) NO and O2 results similar to Buckles et al. [295]
C3H8, P ¼ 1 bar, T ¼ 823 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 18 and 128
Ion-exchange at pH ¼ 2.0
and T ¼ 373 K
H2-O2 pre-treatments at
823 K (1 h in H2 and 1 h
in O2, P ¼ 1 atm,
2.0 l h21)
Abdul Hamid et al. [315]
(i) Successive H2-O2 pretreatments enhance catalyst performance, the major effect is observed for the ﬁrst H2-O2 cycle
(ii) H2 increases the dispersion of the Ga modiﬁer
(iii) The above treatment generates a Ga(III)/Ga(I) redox couple that helps in H-adatom recombination
Short review
—
—
—
—
Guisnet and Gnep [386]
(i) Bifunctional mechanism is kinetically limited by C3H8 dehydrogenation
(ii) Bifunctional dehydrogenation mechanism
(iii) Ga species catalyze hydrogenolysis
C4H10, T ¼ 813 K, N2
carrier ¼ 10 ml min21,
WHSV ¼ 0.5 h21
Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼36 Ga/SiO2-
Ludox
Mechanical mixtures of
HZSM-5 and Ga2O3,
and Ga/SiO2
Impregnation
Not speciﬁed
Le van Mao et al. [292]
(i) Hybrid catalyst where Ga located at pore openings dehydrogenates alkanes and napthenes and does reverse spillover
(ii) Reduction of Ga results in better dispersion
C3H8, Total P ¼ 1 Atm., C3H8
P ¼ 26.6 kPa, T ¼ 773 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 14.5
Incipient wetness
H2 at 773 K for 1 h before
catalytic reactions
Biscardi and Iglesia [137]
C3H8/C3D8 and C3H8/D2
isotopic switching
experiments
(i) C-H bond activation is fast on HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5
(continued)
91
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
(ii) Isotopic experiments show that C-H bond activation occurs at similar rates on HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5
(iii) Ga acts as a porthole for recombinative desorption of H-adatoms
C3H8, Total P ¼ 1 Atm., N2/
C3H8¼4 or N2/O2/
C3H8 ¼ 3/1/1. T ¼ 773 K,
W ¼ 0.5 g,
Vo ¼ 120 cm3s21
Ga2O3, In2O3 or InCl3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 40
Ball milling to obtain
mechanical mixtures
that were heated to
800 K in N2 for 12 h
Heated to 773 K in either
N2 or 1:1 mixture of N2/
H2
Hala
´ sz et al. [387]
(i) In containing samples have activity comparable to Ga containing materials
(ii) H2 pre-treatment enhances activity of Ga containing materials
(iii) Catalysts having Lewis acidity are effective for dehydrogenation and aromatization
Probe molecule: CO and
N2 IR study for
gallosilicate MFI
materials
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Ga ¼ 25, 50, and
75
—
Activated at 673, 823,
and 973 K before
dosing N2 or CO at
77 K
Otero Area
´ n et al. [388]
(i) CO and N2 interact with Brønsted acid sites resulting in a frequency shift to lower wavenumbers
(ii) Based on the Dy assign 2.4 and 1.7 times the polarizing power to extralattice Ga3þ and Brønsted acid sites compared to silanol groups
(iii) N2 is a more sensitive probe of the zeolite environment
C3H8 and C3D8 exchange
studied by IR
spectroscopy
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15
Incipient wetness
impregnation
Flowing O2, T increase
from RT to 773 K then
ﬂushed with N2 before
treating in ﬂowing H2
for 4 h at 773 K
Meriaudeau and Dutel
[389]
(i) The rate of exchange is faster for Ga/HZSM-5 suggesting that the ﬁrst step of propane activation is not the same for HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5
C3H8, Total P ¼ 1 Atm.,
T ¼ 873 K, N2/C3H8 ¼ 1,
GHSV ¼ 3100
cm3g21h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 48
Gallosilicate-Si/Ga ¼ 33
Galloaluminosilicate - Si/
Al ¼ 68 - Si/Ga ¼ 82
Incipient wetness to get
1 wt.% Ga/HZSM-5
H2 or O2 at 873 K for 10 h
followed by treatment
in ﬂowing N2 for 10 min
Choudhary et al. [324]
(i) Surface Ga/Si ratio is higher after O2 treatment for H-GaZSM-5 and H-[Ga, Al] ZSM-5 but lower for Ga/HZSM-5
(ii) Initial enhancement in activity for O2 pretreated catalysts may be due to in situ reduction
92
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(iii) Non-framework Ga species associated with framework Al sites are active and selective
DRIFTS study of Ga
reduction using H2 (5% in
N2) or C3H8. T ¼ 723–
1073 K
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 35 SiO2, SiO2-
Al2O3
Ion exchange, ball milling Reduction in H2 or C3H8
Southward et al. [390]
(i) Reduction is possible on non-zeolitic supports provided they possess the required Brønsted acidity
(ii) Interaction of Ga with Brønsted sites evidenced by the reduction in the 3610 cm21 band and the increase in the 670 cm21 band corresponding to Gaþ1
1-C6
¼, Partial P ¼ 6.1–
84 kPa, T ¼ 623–823 K,
WHSV ¼ 2.9–21.9 h21
1-C8
¼, T ¼ 623–823 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O and
b-Ga2O3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 35
(i) Ion exchange and
impregnation of
Ga(NO3)3. (ii) Ball milling
of Ga2O3 and HZSM-5
Some catalytic
experiments were
performed after
reduction in H2 at
823 K for 2 h
Nash et al. [391]
(i) No difference in catalytic performance of Ga/ZSM-5 formulations prepared after reduction
(ii) H2 reduction helps in Ga dispersion as evidenced by FTIR, XRD and TPR
(iii) Selectivity observed for aromatics is independent of alkene feedstock
(iv) C8 hydrocarbons are the primary aromatic products; at high temperature dealkylation to Toluene and Benzene readily occurs
C3H8, T ¼ 823 K, N2/
C3H8 ¼ 2, Total
P ¼ 1 Atm., Space
velocity ¼
3100 cm3g21h21
Ga(NO3)3
Gallosilicate-Si/Ga ¼ 33-
Framework Si/Ga ¼ 48+3
and HNaGaMFI
—
Heated in N2 for 1 h at
823 K
Choudhary et al. [392]
(i) Extraframework Ga with complete Na exchange is not effective
(ii) Optimum Ga/Hþ ratio
(iii) Dehydrogenation function deactivates faster than cracking
Natural gas (73.6 wt.% CH4,
11.2 wt.% C2H6, 9.6 wt.%
C3H8 0.1% C4H10),
T ¼ 773–873 K, Space
velocity ¼ 500–
6660 cm3g21h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 35 H-GaMFI -
Si/Ga ¼ 30.1 - Si/Ga
FW ¼ 48.5
Incipient wetness
impregnation of
Ga(NO3)3 on HZSM-5
(Si/Ga ¼ 25)
H2 at 873 K
(1030 cm3g21h21) for
1 h and then in a ﬂow
of air for 30 min
Choudhary et al. [325]
H-GaAlMFI - Si/Ga ¼ 37.5 - Si/
Al ¼ 24.3 - Si/Al FW ¼ 40.3 -
Si/Ga FW ¼ 49.9
(continued)
93
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
(i) H[Ga,Al]MFI is the most effective catalyst because it has high dispersion of extraframework Ga close to Hþ sites
(ii) Extraframework Ga without Hþ is not effective
(iii) C20s can be more effectively activated by co-feeding higher alkanes
CH4 ¼ 100 ml/min,
C2H4 ¼ 3 ml/min,
(t ¼ 1.4 s), W ¼ 1.0 g.
T ¼ 573–923 K (HZSM-5)
T ¼ 793 K (Ga/ZSM-5)
Ga(NO3)3
H- and K-ZSM-5 materials.
Incipient wetness
impregnation
Not speciﬁed
Qiu et al. [393]
SiO2
(i) Bifunctional mechanism with Ga species enhancing dehydrogenation
(ii) Ga exists as both Ga3þ at exchange sites and Ga2O3 within the zeolite channels
C2H6 (or C2H4) in N2 (Air,
H2) ¼ 1:3,
WHSV ¼ 10 h21, T ¼ 773–
973 K
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 15 Boralites
with MFI structure - Si/
B ¼ 11
Physical mixture with
HZSM-5 and ion-
exchange of
framework B with
Boralites
Heated in air at 373 K for
30 min, then heated
at 5 K/min to 823 K
retained for 2 h and
cooled to 773 K.
Reduced at 773 K in H2
for some cases
Brabec et al. [326]
(i) Ga introduced into the framework is not reducible but Ga introduced by solid state ion exchange in presence of Brønsted sites is reducible and gives much higher
activity for aromatization
(ii) No change in acid strength upon Ga addition as evidenced by TPR and CD3CN probe molecule IR
C3H8 ¼ 14 kPa,
He ¼ 100 kPa, T ¼ 748 K
Ga2O3, CuO and In2O3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 26
Mechanical mixing upon
ball milling
Pretreated at 423, 573,
and 823 K for 0.5 h and
the Ga-MFI was
formed by further
treatment with a
25 kPa/80 kPa He
mixture at 848 K for 3 h
Price et al. [359]
(i) High gallium content materials result in almost no C-C scission, a higher Benzene/Toluene ratio and, a strongly oleﬁnic and branched C4 fraction
(ii) A reaction mechanism involving alkylation of oleﬁns on Ga-based materials is proposed without signiﬁcant contribution from Hþ sites
(iii) In- and Cu-based materials are inactive under these conditions
94
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Characterization by XRD,
ESR, Probe molecule IR
GaCl3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 14, 20, and 23 Chemical vapor
deposition
Calcined in ﬂowing
oxygen for 3 h
El-Malki et al. [322]
(i) GaOþ, Ga2O3 and Ga in tetrahedral positions
(ii) Decrease in number of Brønsted acid sites upon introduction of Ga
EXAFS study of degalliation
upon heating
Ga(NO3)3
Na-GaZSM-5-Si/Ga ¼ 25, 50,
75
—
Heating in vacuum at
923 K for 2 h
Lamberti et al. [394]
(i) Calcination at 773 K to remove organics and H2O does not disturb the framework, on the other hand T ¼ 923 K in vacuo results in signiﬁcant disorder and formation of
extraframework Ga species
C3H8, T ¼ 823 K, N2/
C3H8 ¼ 2, Total
P ¼ 1 Atm., Space
velocity ¼ 3100
cm3g21h21
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
HZSM-5-synthesized-Si/Al ¼ 35
to 132
Incipient wetness
Not speciﬁed
Choudhary et al. [341]
(i) Acidity is decreased by Ga loading
(ii) At high Ga loading only a small fraction exists as Gaþ1
(iii) Proper balance between Ga species and acid sites required for optimum aromatization performance
C3H8, T ¼ 803 K, P ¼ 1 Atm.,
WWH ¼ 1–50 h21. N2/n-
C7 ¼ 4, Total P ¼ 1 Atm.,
T ¼ 623 K, WWH ¼ 40 h21
Ga(NO3)3.9H2O
Galloaluminosilicate-
[Ga0.99Al1.99]-ZSM-5 zeolite
was steamed in dry air
(shallow bed,
21  fair ml min21g21  4)
at T ¼ 803–1023 K,
time ¼ 0.5–9 h at 92 kPa
H2O
—
Reduced overnight in H2 Montes and Giannetto
[346]
(i) Optimum extraframework Ga/Hþ ¼ 0.5
(ii) Ga in þ1 oxidation state at cation exchange positions
(iii) Only dehydrogenation and no aromatization beyond Ga/Hþ¼1 hence bifunctional mechanism
Review on Gallium in
zeolites including
catalytic applications
Various
Various
Various
Various
Fricke et al. [395]
(i) Excellent review on all gallium based zeolite materials
(continued)
95
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
C2H4 (5 mol% in N2),
T ¼ 673 K, Space
velocity ¼ 3100–
24,600 cm3g21h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 17.7–49.6
H-GaMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 30.1
H-GaAlMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 15.3–
46.6-Si/Al ¼ 17.7–49.6
Incipient wetness
impregnation of
Ga(NO3)3 on HZSM-5
H2 at 873 K
(1030 cm3g21h21) for
1 h and then in a ﬂow
of air for 30 min
Choudhary et al. [342]
(i) Optimum extraframework Ga/Hþ1.0
(ii) No activity if Hþ sites are compensated by Pyridine
(iii) Proximity of extraframework Ga and Hþ sites is required
(iv) Benzene is a secondary aromatic product formed by dealkylation
CO probe molecule IR
study of self-healing of
lattice defects in Ga-MFI
Ga(NO3)3
Na-GaZSM-5-Si/Ga ¼ 25
—
Heating at 973 K in
vacuo followed by
heating at 723 K under
50 mbar of O2. CO
dosing at various P
from 0.5 to 90 mbar
Otero Arean et al. [396]
(i) T ¼ 973 K leads to degalliation as evidenced by reduction in the CO band associated with Brønsted sites
(ii) O2 treatment leads to a recovery of 30% of Brønsted sites attributed to volatile Ga2O being hydrolyzed to repair lattice defects
i-C4H10, P ¼ 1–20 Pa,
T ¼ 473–773 K, heating
rate ¼ 2–5 K/min in a
Knudsen cell
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 16.5
Ion exchange with 0.005 M
solution at 383 K for 24 h
(0.5 wt.%)
Not speciﬁed
Sun et al. [397]
(i) Initial reaction chemistry investigated on Ga and Zn-ZSM-5 and HZSM-5: Identical C-C and C-H bond cleavage activation barriers on Ga/ZSM-5. Much lower
activation barriers and pre-exponential factor on Zn compared to Ga
(ii) Ga and Zn do not decrease acid strength as evidenced by the lack of change in Eact
(iii) Much lower coverage on Ga based materials attributed to Ga3þ blocking pores and hence low coverage results in high pre-exponential factors
C3H8, P ¼ 18 kPa, balance
N2, T ¼ 823 K, F ¼ 0.15 mol/h
Cyclohexane,
P ¼ 6.3 kPa, balance N2,
T ¼ 673–823 K,
F ¼ 0.133 mol/h
Ga(NO3)3
H-GaMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 12.5, 20, 40
and 80
—
O2/N2 ¼ 1
4 for 1 h at 823 K Nishi et al. [398]
Calcination T ¼ 823, 923 and
993 K
96
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(i) High T calcination causes degalliation and formation of Ga2O3 active for dehydrogenation
(ii) Reaction is structure sensitive: rate per exposed Ga2O3 increases with particle size
C3H6 and n-C4H8 (33 mol%
in N2), T ¼ 673 K, Space
velocity ¼ 3100–
24,600 cm3g21h21 for
C3H6 and 3100–
58100 cm3g21h21 for
n-C4H8
Ga(NO3)3
H-GaAlMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 24.3-Si/
Al ¼ 37.5-Si/Ga
(FW) ¼ 49.9-Si/Al
(FW) ¼ 40.3
—
H2 at 873 K
(1030 cm3g21h21) for
1 h and then in a ﬂow
of air for 30 min
Choudhary et al. [343]
(i) Suggestion of optimal extraframework Ga/Hþ ratio
(ii) Selectivity and aromatics production and distribution is a function of space time
Effect of reductive and
oxidative treatment on
Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts.
C3H8, T ¼ 823 K
Ga(NO3)3.6H2O
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 18
Ion exchange at 373 K and
pH ¼ 3 with 0.05 M
solution of Ga(NO3)3
Cycles of 1 h under H2
and O2 at 823 K
Nowak et al. [284]
(i) Cation exchange results in 4–5 nm particles of GaO(OH) deposited on the external surface which upon calcination give Ga2O3
(ii) Reduction leads to migration of Ga species inside the zeolite channels that interact with the zeolite at ion exchange positions as evidenced by IR, XPS, XRD, TPR, NH3-
TPD, HRTEM and 27Al MAS NMR
H2-D2 exchange and
characterization of Ga
in HZSM-5
Ga(CH3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 19.4
Chemical vapor
deposition
Calcined (100 ml N2/20%
O2) or reduced (100 ml
N2/20% H2) for 2 h at
523 K and heated to
773 K for 4 h at 7.5 K/
min
Garcia-Sanchez et al.
[321]
(i) Based on XPS, FTIR and H2-D2 isotopic exchange studies: H2 pretreatment has a positive effect on Ga distribution
(ii) Gallium oxide is the only phase detected by NMR, however re-oxidation by air under experimental conditions is not ruled out
C3H8, T ¼ 773 K (i) C3H8,
P ¼ 20 kPa (ii)
(i) þ O2 ¼ 13.4 kPa
concurrently (co-feed
mode) (iii) O2 added
gradually at a constant
rate (stage feed mode)
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 14.5
Incipient wetness
impregnation
Air for 1 h at 773 K. Ga/
HZSM-5 samples were
treated in ﬂowing H2
at 773 K for 2 h
Waku et al. [399]
(continued)
97
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
(i) Staged O2 introduction leads to selective combustion of H2 generated during reaction and hence overcomes the inhibition effects of H2 leading to higher selectivity
and yield of aromatics
Silylation treatment,
characterization by 1H,
13C MAS NMR, IR, XPS
Trimethyl-gallium (TMG)
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 19.4
Chemical vapor
deposition (CVD)
Calcined in 100 ml/min
of a mixture of 20 vol%
O2 in N2 or reduced in
a mixture of 20 vol% H2
in N2
Garcia-Sanchez et al.
[300]
(i) CVD followed by H2 pre-treatment is effective in dispersing Ga
(ii) XPS studies suggest migration of Ga into the zeolite micropores upon reduction
(iii) Deposition of TMG on silated HZSM-5 leads to uniform Ga distribution
n-C7H16 (6.3 mol% in N2),
T ¼ 773 K, Total
P ¼ 1 Atm.,
GHSV ¼ 3400–
13,600 h21
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 31.1-Ga ¼ 1.9
and 3.7 wt.%
Incipient wetness
impregnation of
Ga(NO3)3 on HZSM-5
H2 at 873 K
(1030 cm3g21h21) for
1 h and then in a ﬂow
of air for 30 min
Choudhary et al. [344]
H-GaMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 30.1 and
68.4 with FW ratio ¼ 50.6
and 73.2
H-GaAlMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 15.3 and
46.6 with FW ratio ¼ 44.8
and 88.6-Si/Al ¼ 49.6 and
17.7 with FW ratio ¼ 54.1
and 25.0
(i) Bifunctional mechanism involving synergistic interaction between non-framework Ga and Hþ sites
(ii) Optimum extraframework Ga/Hþ1.0
98
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
DRIFTS study of the
chemical state of
Gallium ions in reduced
Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts
using CO adsorption as
a probe molecule
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 40–48
Incipient wetness
impregnation (5 wt.%
Ga corresponding to
Ga/Al ¼ 1)
Evacuated at 423 K for
2 h; heated to 773 K at
3 K/min followed by (i)
calcination in 70 torr
O2 and cooled in
vacuo to ambient
temperature (ii)
reduction in 50 torr H2
and cooling in vacuo
to room temperature
followed by exposure
to CO
Kazansky et al. [329]
(i) All acid sites can be replaced by univalent Ga species upon reduction at 773 K
(ii) Evacuation at 773 K leads to Gaþ cations that can be re-oxidized by NO
(iii) Reduction in H2 leads to formation of stable Gallium hydride species that can only be decomposed upon evacuation at 773 K
(iv) Gaþ cations can activate H2 at T . 573 K
(v) CO probe molecule experiments suggest various Ga species in the zeolite micropores
XANES study of Ga/ZSM-5
activation. H2 and D2,
T ¼ 573 K (1 kPa),
balance N2
Trimethyl gallium
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 19.4
Chemical vapor
deposition: 6.8 wt.% Ga
(Ga/Al  1.3)
H2 or O2 to 773 K
(2 K/min)
Hensen et al. [331]
(i) Ga(CH3)2
þ species initially formed upon vapor phase exchange are reduced to Gaþ species at T . 640 K
(ii) These reduced Gaþ species can be easily oxidized by O2 to form GaOþ
(iii) GaOþ species have a higher activity for H-D exchange than reduced Gaþ species
DRIFTS study of the
chemical state and
reactivity of Ga species
in Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts by
oxidation of Ga species
by NO or H2O
Ga(NO3)3
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 44
Incipient wetness
impregnation (Ga/
Al  1)
Calcination and
reduction at 773 K
Kazansky et al. [400]
Trimethyl gallium
Chemical vapor
deposition
Reduction at 723 K
followed by
evacuation
(i) Reduced Gaþ species can be oxidized by NO and H2O at 573 K and is accompanied by partial hydrolysis of [GaO]þregenerating a fraction of Hþ sites
(ii) Oxidative addition of H2 to Gaþ forms [GaH2]þ species that decompose only at T . 673 K in vacuum
(continued)
99
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
(iii) Ethane can dissociatively adsorb on Gaþ species forming [H-Ga-C2H5]þ; this species decomposes above 573 K to form [GaH2]þ and ethylene
DFT study of gallium hydride
species in
dehydrogenation
reactions of Ga/ZSM-5
systems
B3LYP/6–31G(d,p) with 6–
11 T clusters
—
—
—
Joshi and Thomson [334]
(i) [GaH]2þ species coordinated to two framework Al species have higher reactivity for alkane dehydrogenation than monovalent [GaH2]þ species
(ii) The reactivity of these [GaH]2þ depends on the Al-Al distance
DFT study of C2H6
dehydrogenation over
[GaH2]þ
5T cluster and B3LYP/
LACVP
—
—
—
Pereira [401]
(i) Depending on geometric constraints dehydrogenation may proceed via a single step mechanism or may proceed via intermediate formation of Ga-alkyl species
DRIFTS study of C2H6
activation on Ga1þ
and Zn2þ cations ion-
exchanged into ZSM-5.
Trimethyl gallium
HZSM-5-SiO2/Al2O3 ¼ 44
Chemical vapor
deposition (Ga/Al  1;
Zn/Al  0.5)
Reduction of Ga/ZSM-5
material at 773 K and
evacuation
Kazansky et al. [330]
Zn vapor
1% vol C2H6 (100 ml/min,
balance N2) at T ¼ 823 K
Reduction at 823 K (5 K/
min)
(i) C2H6 is polarized by the Lewis acid Zn2þ-basic oxygen pairs to dissociatively adsorb regenerating Hþ sites
(ii) C2H6 is weakly adsorbed on reduced Ga species and is activated only at T . 573 K forming H- and C2H5-species grafted onto Ga, which decompose upon further
heating to form gallium dihydrides
C3H8:N2 ¼ 1:1, T ¼ 823 K,
Space velocity ¼ 3000–
12,000 cm3g21h21
Ga(NO3)3
H-GaAlMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 46.6 and
Si/Al ¼ 17.7-Si/Ga ¼ 15.3
and Si/Al ¼ 49.6
—
Calcined at 873 K
(1800 cm3g21h21) for
1 h in dry N2
Choudhary et al. [402]
(i) A signiﬁcant fraction of Ga was extracted from the zeolite lattice while this was not the case for Al
(ii) Higher concentrations of non-framework gallium species resulted in higher dehydrogenation/cracking ratios
C3H8:N2 ¼ 1:1, T ¼ 723–
873 K, Space
velocity ¼ 1500–
49,000 cm3g21h21
Ga(NO3)3
H-GaAlMFI-Si/Ga ¼ 49.9 and
Si/Al ¼ 40.3
—
Calcined at 873 K or
973 K
(1800 cm3g21h21) for
1 h in dry N2
Choudhary et al. [403]
100
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(i) The distribution of aromatic products is controlled by both the direct aromatization and secondary transformation reactions depending on the contact time
C3H8 ¼ 5% (balance He),
ﬂow ¼ 100 ml/min,
T ¼ 823 K,
WHSV ¼ 11.7 h21
Trimethyl gallium (TMG)
HZSM-5-Si/Al ¼ 19.4
Chemical vapor
deposition (Ga/Al1.2)
(i) TMG/HZSM-5 reduced
in H2 ﬂow at 823 K (5 K/
min, 2 h) (ii) Sample in
(i) treated in He at
823 K for 1 h (iii)
Sample in (i) cooled to
473 K in He and
exposed to 1% N2O in
He for 1 h (iv) He ﬂows
at 823 K prior to
reaction
Rane et al. [332]
(i) At elevated temperatures Gaþ and GaH2
þ co-exist in a hydrogen atmosphere
(ii) Gaþ species are oxidized by N2O at 473 K to form GaOþ
(iii) H2 inhibits aromatization reactions by transforming Gaþ to GaH2
þ
(iv) GaOþ species are more reactive compared to Gaþ and GaH2
þ and can be re-generated under reaction conditions
DFT study of H-D exchange
over reduced and
oxidized Ga species
B3LYP/6–311 þ G and 1T
cluster
—
—
—
Kuzmin et al. [404]
(i) H-D exchange over GaH2
þ is more favorable than over GaOþ species, however experimentally measured rates are more facile on oxidized samples due to a lower
concentration of GaH2
þ species
(ii) The reaction on reduced Ga species proceeds via dissociation of H2 over a Lewis acid-base pair formed by the Ga-cation and the basic oxygen atom of the zeolite
lattice
DFT study comparing
stability and reactivity
for C2H6
dehydrogenation of
Gaþ, GaH2
þ and GaH2þ
species
B3LYP/6–31G(d,p) for Ga
and Hþ; 6–311G(d,p)
for C2H6 and O atoms of
the zeolite; Al, Si and
terminal H D95
Dunning/Huzinaga
basis set; 8T cluster
—
—
—
Pidko et al. [336]
(i) Ga sites activate ethane heterolytically via the ‘alkyl’ mechanism forming [H-Ga-C2H5]þ, which decomposes via simultaneous desorption of H2 and C2H4
(ii) Decomposition of GaH2
þ sites to form Gaþ is signiﬁcantly favored over regeneration of GaH2
þ
(continued)
101
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Table 2: Continued.
Reactants and conditions
Ga-source
Zeolite
Preparation
Pretreatment
References
(iii) Bivalent GaH2þ species stabilized over distant framework Al sites are highly unstable and highly reactive for C2H6 transformation, however; are transformed to
univalent species upon reaction. GaH2þ species stabilized over proximate Al sites are inactive for C-H bond activation
Thermochemical analysis
of concentration and
reactivity of [GaH]2þ-Al
pair sites by DFT
B3LYP/6–31G(d,p)
—
—
—
Joshi and Thomson [335]
(i) ‘Alkyl’ activation though more facile than ‘carbenium’ activation forms very stable [H-Ga-C2H5]þ persistant spectator species on the surface of the catalyst
(ii) Thermochemical analysis suggests that a majority of the [GaH]2þZ2- will be in the nonreduced form, and that the concentration of such sites will increase with
increasing temperature
(iii) H2 inhibition for Ga/ZSM-5 formulations arises due to reduction of [GaH]2þZ2- to form [GaH2] þZ2 sites
102
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
platelets and that much better gallium dispersion was obtained by the incipient
wetness impregnation technique. Gallium deposition was found to be strongly
pH dependent at a constant temperature of 373 K and independent of the
zeolite silicon to aluminum ratio. Dooley et al. (286) performed two successive
ion exchanges of 5 equivalents of Ga(NO3)3 aqueous solution with HMFI, with
slow heating to 773 K in ﬂowing helium after each exchange. From microba-
lance reduction studies on these materials they concluded that ion exchange
in aqueous solutions was performed by Ga(OH)2
þ ions. Ion exchange of
gallium into HZSM-5 is generally done in acidic solution at pH values of 2–4
and at temperatures in the range 303–373 K. The distribution of gallium
species in aqueous solution is strongly dependent on the pH and temperature.
At pH 3.0 and T  303 K, the gallium speciation is strongly dominated by posi-
tively charged species such as Ga3þ (50%) and Ga(OH)2þ (50%) while
higher temperatures (423 K) favor less positively charged species such as
Ga(OH)2þ (10%), Ga(OH)2
þ (60%) and Ga(OH)3
0 (30%). Hence, depending
upon the temperature and pH conditions employed for gallium deposition, a
variety of gallium species are present on the as-synthesized catalyst (284).
From our discussion below, however, it will become apparent that the treat-
ment of Ga-modiﬁed zeolites (ion exchanged or impregnated) in a hydrogen
containing stream at elevated temperatures leads to reduction and migration
of these gallium species.
Physical mixtures of Ga2O3 and HZSM-5 have been employed by several
authors to prepare active aromatization catalysts. Kanazirev et al. (287)
observed very long induction periods for ball-milled b-Ga2O3/HZSM-5 cata-
lysts. This effect was ascribed to the slow reduction and migration of gallium
species leading to reductive solid state exchange of gallium with the protonic
sites of the zeolite. Redispersion of the reduced Gaþ via a solid state
exchange process and the stoichiometric reaction of the zeolite with gallium
were conﬁrmed by microbalance reduction studies. Pretreatment of the
freshly prepared catalyst with hydrogen at elevated temperatures was found
to shorten the induction period and enhance activity. Similar observations
upon hydrogen pretreatment as well as reduction of gallium species by
hydrogen produced under reaction conditions have been conﬁrmed by several
authors.
Researchers (120, 288, 289) however, could not conﬁrm the transfer of
gallium species into the zeolite. They found that co-extruding a wet-mixture
of a gallium loaded silica, co-catalyst with HZSM-5 and a bentonite binder
yielded
an
active
n-butane
aromatization
catalyst.
Quartz,
silica
and
alumina supports upon incorporation of gallium oxide were also evaluated to
be effective co-catalysts. These catalyst materials were considered to have
gallium very far away from the protonic sites of the zeolite (several
micrometers) and hence, were postulated to be bifunctional materials with cat-
alytic activity at the interface of the support containing gallium species and
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
103
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
zeolite crystals. The effective catalytic mechanism was postulated to be long
distance hydrogen back spillover (LD-HBS), wherein the gallium species
help in hydrogen removal from the zeolite catalyst. A gallium oxide/Ludox col-
loidal silica co-precipitate exhibited the highest aromatization activity and the
difference in various co-catalysts was ascribed to the textural features of the
support. We note that although Ga2O3 is known to have dehydrogenation
activity by itself (290), solid-state processes have also been shown to result in
the introduction of metal cations into high silica zeolite structures under
these conditions (291). Some contamination of the HZSM-5 materials by
transfer of partially reduced gallium oxide from the co-catalyst surface was
also observed by these authors (292), however, they claim that the synergistic
interaction with co-extruded catalysts that was observed at only 25 minutes-
on-stream could not result due to gallium migration. Based on a study by
Meriaudeau et al. (293), a physical mixture of Ga2O3 and HZSM-5 reduced at
873 K for 5 minutes shows signiﬁcant gallium migration. Additionally, no
experimental evidence for the existence of the hydrogen species migrating
across the surface of the catalyst and the inert was presented by Le van Mao
et al. (292). In light of viable alternative explanations, we believe that in the
complex catalyst formulation comprised of binder, gallium oxide, inert
support, and the HZSM-5 material employed by the authors above, the exper-
imental evidence does not prove the existence of the LD-HBS mechanism.
Carli et al. (294) have investigated the oxidation state of the gallium oxide
species by high resolution XPS measurements of Ga2O3 mixed with HZSM-5
after hydrogen pretreatment at low temperatures (373–673 K) and compared
it with a sample reduced at 773 K. A signiﬁcant amount of Gaþ3 to Gaþ1
reduction was observed at low temperatures and was tentatively ascribed to
activated hydrogen generated by sodium and iron cations in the zeolite
lattice; no concurrent Ga migration into the zeolite lattice however, was
noted under these conditions. At higher temperatures the authors agree with
the work of Price and coworkers and attribute reaction to a reductive solid
state ion exchange process.
Buckles and Hutchings (295, 296) studied the reaction of propane over
separate beds of b-Ga2O3 and HZSM-5 separated by silica wool in the following
conﬁgurations:
a.
HZSM-5 (0.5 g);
b.
Ga2O3 (0.3 g) over HZSM-5 (0.5 g);
c.
HZSM-5 (0.5 g) over Ga2O3 (0.3 g).
The addition of Ga2O3 as a separate bed in addition to the zeolite was
observed to have no signiﬁcant effect on the catalytic performance. Hydrogen
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
104
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
pretreatment of conﬁguration (b) with subsequent removal of the separate
Ga2O3 phase prior to the reaction of propane was observed to result in
enhanced reactivity for aromatics production compared to HZSM-5. Sub-
sequent analysis of the zeolite indicated that some gallium was transferred
to the zeolite upon hydrogen treatment. These experiments conﬁrmed the
synergistic nature of the Ga/ZSM-5 formulation and conﬁrmed that close
proximity between gallium and the zeolite was required for enhanced
activity. Carli and Ragaini (297) investigated mechanical mixtures of gallium
oxide and HZSM under “distance preservative” reaction conditions where
reductive solid state ion exchange was considered not to occur [T , 673 K,
see discussion of Carli and Ragaini (294) above], and showed that gallium
oxide deposited on a silica support can also enhance activity by providing a
dehydrogenation function. Temperature was considered as the primary
driver for gallium reduction in this study while the effect of hydrogen partial
pressure or other reductants generated in situ under reaction conditions was
not discussed. Dooley et al. (298) classiﬁed gallium-loaded materials as ‘unse-
gregated’, segregated but ‘locked’, or initially segregated but in a dispersed
fashion such that migration of gallium under reaction conditions can occur.
Similar to work from Le van Mao and coworkers (292), Dooley et al. (298)
ﬁnd less than 5% of the total initial gallium to be transferred in case of segre-
gated catalysts comprised of a Ga-containing co-catalyst, HZSM-5, and a
binder. The retrieved HZSM-5 sample however, exhibited virtually unchanged
catalytic activity. On the other hand, initially segregated Ga2O3 and HZSM-5
phases were found to undergo a slow activation period at typical aromatization
conditions which could be eliminated by pretreatment in hydrogen. X-ray dif-
fraction and thermogravimetry measurements supported gallium migration
under reactions conditions. Impregnated materials that resulted in intimate
contact of Ga2O3 with HZSM-5 gave high initial rates of reduction although
no substantive differences in catalytic behavior between Ga(NO3)3 impreg-
nates and Ga2O3 mechanical mixtures were observed once transfer of
gallium into the zeolite was complete.
Kwak and Sachtler (117, 299) found chemical vapor deposition (CVD),
using sublimation of GaCl3, as a technique for true ion exchange of Brønsted
acid sites in HZSM-5 by GaOþ species. The degree of exchange was determined
by detection of HCl by mass spectrometry (MS) and by titration with AgNO3.
Temperature programmed reduction (TPR) using CO as a reductant was
used to distinguish between GaOþ and Ga3þ. A higher ratio of gallium
exchange was obtained using CVD compared to conventional ion-exchange
techniques as probed by CO-TPR. The Brønsted acidity of the zeolite was
markedly lowered by introduction of gallium followed by release of HCl
suggesting that gallium was directly introduced at cation exchange positions
via this vapor phase process. Recently Garcia-Sanchez et al. (300) have
shown that CVD of trimethylgallium followed by hydrogen treatment to
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
105
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
remove the remaining methyl groups is an efﬁcient method to disperse gallium
in the zeolite micropores. Hydrogen treatment was preferred to calcination for
removal of alkyl groups as calcination resulted in the partial hydrolysis of
gallium cations. Undesired reactions of the trimethylgallium with the silanol
groups on the external surface of the zeolite were circumvented by silylation
of the external surface of the zeolite with tetramethyldisilazane in this study.
A comparison between catalysts prepared by various techniques makes it
evident that the method of catalyst preparation does not affect performance,
as the catalyst is ‘prepared’ in situ under reaction conditions. Speciﬁcally,
gallium, initially dispersed on the external surface of the zeolite crystallites
in a separate phase, upon reductive treatments at elevated temperatures,
migrates within the zeolite crystallites and undergoes reductive solid state
ion exchange. This picture is reinforced in the following section where we
comment upon the effects of pretreatment conditions and the resulting oxi-
dation state of the gallium species.
4.2.
Effect of Pretreatment on Gallium Dispersion
Initial observations by Inui and coworkers (301) on low gallium content
materials with high activity for propane aromatization where the amount of
Ga ions may be limited by the framework Al content of the ZSM-5 materials
suggest that the zeolite lattice stoichiometrically reacts with Ga species. A
similar observation with respect to lack of any signiﬁcant change in activity
beyond a Ga content (1.2 wt.%) corresponding to 100% exchange (assuming
exchanged species as Ga3þ compensating for three Brønsted acid sites) was
also made by Kitagawa and coworkers (302). In a comparative study of Zn
and Ga ion exchange on ZSM-5, Yakerson et al. (283) observed direct ion
exchange for zinc based on pyridine-probe-molecule IR and electron microscopy
studies, while Ga species dispersed as oxides on the zeolite external surface
that did not undergo ion-exchange were observed. The positive affect of Ga
addition to aromatization was attributed by the authors to redisperion and
migration of dehydroxylated Ga cations under pretreatment or reaction
conditions.
In signiﬁcant publications related to Ga2O3/HZSM-5 propane aromatiza-
tion catalysts Price and Kanazirev (287, 303) investigated ball milled
physical mixtures of 2–10 wt% Ga2O3 with HZSM-5 using microbalance TPR
experiments and XRD. Microbalance studies during hydrogen reduction
showed a band at 940 K that shifts to 875 K upon increasing the hydrogen
partial pressure; this band however, was not individually observed for either
HZSM-5 or Ga2O3. This peak was also not observed for an intimate physical
mixture of Ga2O3 and NaX zeolite ball milled under similar conditions.
Based on the amount of water evolved upon reduction of the gallium species
as well as the observed total reduction of the gallium, these microbalance
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
106
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
studies suggest that the zeolite is a stoichiometric reactant in the reduction
process. A signiﬁcant increase in aromatics production with a decrease in
methane production was evident after 30 h on-stream. A catalyst pre-treated
in hydrogen for 2 h at 848 K was observed to give a virtually identical
product distribution to one that had been activated on-stream. These obser-
vations related to synergistic interactions between Ga2O3 and HZSM-5 in
reducing environments have since been conﬁrmed by several other researchers
(310, 313, 314, 317, 354). In a series of publications following the above, Kana-
zirev and coworkers have employed IR spectroscopy to show the key role of
hydrogen in creating active centers for Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts (304–306). IR
spectra recorded at room temperature for a Ga-based formulation prepared
by physically mixing b-Ga2O3 and HZSM-5 showed a signiﬁcant reduction in
the 3610 cm21 band ascribed to Brønsted acid sites upon reduction in 300
torr of H2 at 783 K and a decrease in intensity in the 700 cm21 band
assigned to gallium oxide species upon reduction or under propane aromatiza-
tion reaction conditions. These results were afﬁrmed using CO probe-molecule
IR studies by the appearance of a band at 2155 cm21 attributed to CO inter-
action with reduced Gadþ species; this band disappeared upon oxygen treat-
ment and was not observed for Ga/NaZSM-5 or b-Ga2O3.
X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy has also been employed by several
research groups to study the reduction and re-dispersion of gallium upon
hydrogen pretreatment (294, 307–309). Price and coworkers (286, 310) used
a combination of thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) and differential scanning
calorimetry (DSC) to conﬁrm the stoichiometric reaction of the zeolite with
gallium as well as the formation of a Ga3þ/Gaþ redox pair. Ion exchanged, as
well as physical mixture formulations of Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts were subjected
to the following pre-treatments: (i) reduction (848 K), (ii) reduction followed
by oxidation (823 K), (iii) reduction followed by treatment in helium ﬂows,
and (iv) reduction-oxidation-reduction pretreatments. Optimal catalysts were
formed upon reduction to disperse gallium entities followed by re-oxidation
to obtain the Ga3þ phase, while materials with a high degree of proton
exchange were found to have low activity. These studies however, were done
on a ZSM-5 sample with Si/Al ¼ 20 and a Ga loading of 5% (corresponding to
Ga/Al of 0.94), hence, it is not clear whether the re-oxidation simply generates
an optimal ratio of Gaþ/Hþ sites (discussed in section 4.4.) in the more active
material or whether GaOþ cations have higher reactivity.
Meitzner et al. (311) investigated the chemical state of gallium in alkane
aromatization catalysts using in situ gallium K-edge X-ray absorption spec-
troscopy (XAS). Methyl shift and double bond isomerization probe reaction
studies conﬁrmed that the calcined Ga/HZSM-5 catalyst had an acid site
density similar to that of the parent HZSM-5, however, during hydrogen treat-
ment or propane conversion at 780 K, the absorption edge corresponding to
Ga2O3 in the XAS measurement was observed to shift several volts and at
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
107
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
steady state corresponded to a reduced GaHx species. The reduction of gallium
under in situ conditions was conﬁrmed by the dihydrogen consumption during
reduction of calcined Ga/HZSM-5 corresponding to a transformation of Ga3þ to
Ga1þ after 2 h at 773 K in a 4% H2/Ar mixture. Concurrently, the coordination
number of Ga with oxygen nearest neighbors decreased from near six (octa-
hedral Ga3þ) to about one. Consistent with infrared, stoichiometric titration
and XPS studies, this XAS study also accounts for the reduction-oxidation
behavior of the Ga species.
Derouane and coworkers have studied the migration of gallium in propane
aromatization catalysts using XPS, energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX), 71Ga, 27Al,
and 29Si magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance (MAS NMR) and
Rutherford backscattering spectroscopy (RBS) of alpha particles (144, 312–
316). Changes in the spatial distribution of gallium species were evidenced
by comparing Ga/Si atomic ratios measured by techniques having different
analytical probing depths such as XPS (5 nm), RBS (70 nm), and EDX
(200 nm). During successive reductive and oxidative cycles the amount of
gallium occupying tetrahedral framework T-sites, cation exchange positions,
and existing as non-dispersed gallium oxide species were quantiﬁed by MAS
NMR and NH3 TPD. Gallium was initially observed to form a segregated
phase on the outside of the zeolite crystallites, subsequently undergo migration
within the zeolite pores upon reduction and ﬁnally agglomerate on the external
surface as a non-dispersed phase upon successive regeneration cycles in
oxygen, and hence steaming. The optimal catalyst formulation was found to
contain the maximum amount of dispersed ion exchanged gallium species. A
comparison of two ZSM-5 materials with different Al (3.7 and 1.14 per unit
cell) and ion-exchanged Ga species (0.92 and 0.15 per unit cell) showed that
reactivity was higher for the sample with the higher Hþ and Gaþ content,
although rates did not scale simply with the concentration of either site. The
dynamic nature of the redox process upon exposure to small amounts of
oxygen or water was also conﬁrmed by Dooley et al. (298, 317) using FTIR
and thermogravimetry. Reoxidation to Ga3þ after dispersion was observed to
be facile contrary to the initial reduction process and was not observed to re-
generate the original Ga2O3 species observed prior to reduction suggesting
that the nature of the re-oxidized gallium species was different from the
initial Ga2O3 species formed.
Buckles and Hutchings (296, 318–320) have proposed reversible formation
of the active center in Ga2O3/HZSM-5 catalysts with active sites being located
at the interface of the two mechanically mixed solids. Enhanced activity
observed for physical mixtures taken at 5 min on stream at 873 K led these
researchers to conclude that there is no induction period during which the
active sites are established and hence the active sites are not produced by
migration of gallium suboxide into the micropores of the zeolite. These obser-
vations were disputed by Meriaudeau et al. (293) who investigated the
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
108
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
conversion of propane at 773 K over (Ga2O3 þ HZSM-5) mixed powders sub-
mitted to the following treatments:
a.
treatment A: calcination under O2 at 773 K overnight;
b.
treatment B: treatment A þ calcination for 1 h under O2 at 873 K;
c.
treatment C: treatment B þ reaction of propane for 5 min at 873 K and;
d.
treatment D: treatment B þ reduction under hydrogen for 5 min at 873 K.
Similar activity obtained for treatment C and D suggests in situ reduction
under reaction conditions. Several authors have since conﬁrmed that as
prepared Ga/HZSM-5 formulations do not result in ion exchange, however,
upon reduction treatments the Ga is re-dispersed with concurrent decrease
in the number of acidic hydroxyl species as evidenced by probe-molecule
kinetic and infrared studies, electron microscopy, NMR and temperature
programmed methods (283).
Hydrogen reduction of Ga/ZSM-5 materials prepared by CVD of trimethyl-
gallium has also been shown to provoke migration of gallium into the zeolite
crystallites by XPS studies without any loss in total gallium content as probed
by elemental ICP characterization (300, 321). IR results from these studies
also conﬁrm a reduction in the 3610 cm21 band upon hydrogen pretreatment
compared to oxygen pretreated samples and similar observations upon CVD
of GaCl3 on to HZSM-5 were noted previously by El-Malki et al. (322).
In comparative studies of Ga-modiﬁed framework and extraframework
materials including gallosilicate H-GaMFI, galloaluminosilicate H-GaAlMFI
and Ga/HZSM-5 for propane aromatization at 873 K, Choudhary and co-
workers found a signiﬁcant increase in activity and production of aromatics
upon H2 treatment for H-GaAlMFI and Ga/HZSM-5 (323–325). H-GaAlMFI
was evaluated to be the best formulation due to close proximity of extraframe-
work gallium species generated under reaction conditions and the Brønsted
acid sites of the zeolite. A lower Si/Ga ratio for O2 pretreated samples
compared to H2 pretreated samples for the Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts was
observed in the XPS studies accompanying these kinetic studies conﬁrming
the migration of Ga species into the zeolite crystallites, while this observation
was not made for H-GaMFI and H-GaAlMFI samples. The easier reduction of
extraframework gallium species compared to gallium incorporated into the
zeolite lattice was also noted by Brabec et al. (326).
As summarized above, a variety of ex-situ characterization techniques such
as FTIR, XPS, HRTEM, DRIFTS, RBS, EDX, TPR microbalance studies, XRD,
NMR, as well as catalytic probe reaction studies, and the in situ EXAFS work
from Meitzner and coworkers (311) present a consistent picture of gallium
reduction in presence of hydrogen. The gallium initially located on the
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
109
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
exterior of the zeolite in a segregated phase migrates inside the zeolite upon
reduction. The decrease in the number of Brønsted sites upon gallium
migration and stoichiometric reaction of the zeolite with the gallium species,
as well as reduction of Ga2O3 only in presence of the H-zeolite, also suggest a
reductive solid state ion exchange process with the zeolite. The chemical trans-
formation of the gallium accompanied by this reduction and the oxidation state
of the gallium in these materials is discussed in the next section.
4.3.
Oxidation State of Gallium and Structure of the Active
Site
The particular mechanism for the solid state redox reaction discussed in
section 4.2 is still not agreed upon for Ga/ZSM-5 formulations. While introduc-
tion of transition metal cations in high-silica zeolites has been shown to occur
via solid state reaction (291, 327), Ga2O, the favorable thermodynamic compo-
sition under reaction conditions, is known to have a measurable vapor pressure
at these conditions (315) therefore, vapor phase migration of gallium cannot be
ruled out.
Observations from microbalance reduction experiments for a set of ball-
milled
b-Ga2O3 and HZSM-5 physical
mixtures
with varying
gallium
loadings (287, 303) showed that the weight loss accompanying treatment in a
reducing environment corresponded to the stoichiometry shown in Eq. (6)
where GaþZ2 stands for a unipositive gallium cation afﬁxed to the anionic
lattice of the zeolite.
Ga2O3 þ 2HþZ þ 2H2 
! 2GaþZ þ 3H2O
ð6Þ
The stoichiometric reduction of the zeolite by the Ga-species discussed in
section 4.2. and optimal Ga/Hþ ratios observed for these catalysts (see
section 4.4.) are also consistent with the stoichiometry proposed by Price and
Kanazirev.
The in situ X-ray absorption study for these materials by Meitzner et al.
(311) deserves particular mention for characterization of the chemical state
of gallium. Changes in the gallium oxidation state and structure during
reaction and hydrogen treatment were observed by a clear shift in the absorp-
tion edge, modiﬁcation in the shape of the near-edge region and a decrease in
intensity in the EXAFS region. Deconvolution of the EXAFS spectra demon-
strated the formation of metallic gallium as a precursor to the ﬁnal state.
The absorption edge of the steady-state reduced Ga/HZSM-5 sample did not
resemble metallic gallium, and no sintering or elution of volatile elemental
gallium was observed. The EXAFS amplitude was consistent with an intera-
tomic distance consistent with coordination of gallium to oxygen atoms. The
catalytic centers present at steady state in Ga/HZSM-5 formulations were
proposed to be gallium hydride monomeric species (GaHx) coordinated to one
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
110
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
or more basic zeolite lattice oxygen atoms with a Ga valency between 0 and 1.
Reversible and reproducible reoxidation of these GaHx species to Ga3þ was
observed upon cooling to room temperature in ﬂowing hydrogen in absence of
oxygen and moisture, as shown by the shift in the K-edge, calibrated using
standard gallium compounds. The resulting species, upon reoxidation, were
not characteristic of Ga2O3, however, as the initial equimolar distribution of
Ga3þ cations between tetrahedral and octahedral sites was not regenerated.
Instead, the Ga3þ cations were observed to be in tetrahedral symmetry, consist-
ent with gallium being epitaxed to the negative zeolite lattice oxygen atoms
resembling framework aluminum cations. A similar reoxidation phenomenon,
though in presence of small amounts of moisture and oxygen has also been
observed by Dooley et al. (317) using TPR and FTIR. The facile re-oxidation
of the gallium species generated led these authors to suggest that the
original Ga2O3 species which reduces in excess of 2000s was not regenerated
upon reoxidation; a similar observation was also noted by Chang et al. (328)
based on TPD studies of physical mixtures of Ga/SiO2 and HZSM-5. Kwak
et al. (299) have also observed a modiﬁed TPR proﬁle for reduced-reoxidized
samples prepared by chemical vapor deposition.
The formation of coordinatively unsaturated Gaþ cationic species compen-
sating Brønsted acid sites that can be reversibly oxidized has also been recently
conﬁrmed by Kazansky and coworkers (329) using DRIFTS. The replacement
of protons was tracked by observing the decrease in the 3610 cm21 band
assigned to Brønsted acid sites upon reduction of the Ga-exchanged sample.
Based on the low Al content (Si/Al ¼ 22) and the Ga/Al¼1 content for these
samples, the authors argue that the charge on the Ga-species is þ1. The for-
mation of low coordinated Gaþ cations upon evacuation at high temperatures
was evidenced by disappearance of CO bands at 2130, 2147, and 2188 cm21
upon reoxidation with NO. These Gaþ species were observed to undergo an
activated transformation to gallium hydride species at temperatures .573 K
in presence of H2 evidenced by the appearance of infrared bands at 2041 and
2059 cm21 assigned to the formation of gallium hydride species. These
hydride species were found to decompose only at temperatures .673 K
under vacuum. A comparative study of C2H6 adsorption on Zn2þ and Ga1þ
cations in ZSM-5 (330) revealed the much stronger Lewis acidic character of
the Zn2þ species that resulted in dissociative adsorption of C2H6 forming zinc
hydride species and regeneration of a Brønsted acid site compared to Ga1þ
cations that dissociated C2H6 to form hydride and ethyl fragments coordinated
to cationic Ga species without re-generating any Hþ sites only at T .573 K.
Prolonged heating of this Ga-species was observed to result in the appearance
of infrared bands at 2040 and 2057 cm21 assigned to gallium hydride species by
desorption of ethylene.
Hensen et al. (331) investigated the activation of Ga/ZSM-5 materials
prepared by CVD of trimethylgallium using XAS methods. Similar to the
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
111
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
work of Meitzner et al. (311), these authors observe the formation of a Gaþ
species in a reducing atmosphere. Based on reduction and oxidation studies
on these materials the authors propose that [GaO]þ are 3 times more
active for H-D exchange than catalysts subjected to reducing treatments. We
note however, that this material had a Ga/Al ratio  1.2 and that NMR and
infrared evidence presented showed considerable dealumination for these
samples. The role of the excess Ga species or the extraframework Al species
was not discussed by the authors, however. Rane et al. (332) propose that
[GaH2]þ and [Ga]þ may co-exist under reaction conditions and that the replace-
ment of H2 ﬂows by C3H8/He ﬂows would result in the replacement of [GaH2]þ
by [Ga]þ. Based on a comparison between the reactivity of a Ga/ZSM-5 reduced
at 473 K and a Ga/ZSM-5 reduced and oxidized at 473 K for propane conver-
sion at 823 K, the authors conclude that [GaO]þ species are signiﬁcantly
more active than the [Ga]þ species, and that [GaO]þ species undergo several
hundred turnovers. However, the presence of such [GaO]þ species under
reducing environments prevalent under propane aromatization conditions
(800 K, 1 Atm. propane) or the mechanism of regeneration of the [GaO]þ
species under reaction conditions was not demonstrated.
Frash and van Santen (333) performed a quantum chemical study of ethane
dehydrogenation on gallium exchanged zeolites on 3T zeolites clusters. Two
distinct models of the gallium active species, GaH2
þZ2 and [Ga ¼ O]þZ2, and
two distinct ways of alkane C-H bond activation, the alkyl activation involving
Rd-—Hdþ and the carbenium activation involving Rdþ—Hd-, were evaluated at
the
MP2(fc)/6-31þþ(2df,p)/
/B3LYP/6-31G
level
of
theory
(shown
in
Figure 13). In agreement with most experimental studies cited above, this
work also ﬁnds a gallium-hydride species to be the catalytically active species
because regeneration of the [Ga ¼ O]þZ2 species was calculated to have very
high activation barriers. The authors conclude that activation of ethane
occurs via “alkyl” polarization and the heterolytic cleavage of a C-H bond in
C2H6 (C2H5
d--Hdþ) whereby the Gaþ cation acts as an ethyl group acceptor
rather than a hydride ion acceptor. “Carbenium” activation (C2H5
dþ-Hd-) is
proposed to be more difﬁcult because of the higher electronegativity of carbon
with respect to hydrogen, and the low stability of the ethyl cation.
A recent DFT study (B3LYP/6-31G(d,p)) by Joshi et al. (334) has compared
alkane dehydrogenation on two types of Ga-catalytic sites: Ga coordinated to a
single Al site of the form Z2[HGaX]þ (X ¼ H, CH3, OH, Cl) and Ga coordinated
to two framework Al sites Z2-[GaH]2þ. Similar to the work of Frash and van
Santen described above, these authors ﬁnd that the desorption of the alkyl
fragment has an activation barrier signiﬁcantly greater than those reported
in experimental studies. A direct one-step dehydrogenation pathway in
which a hydrogen atom from one of the alkane carbons combines with a
hydrogen atom from the active Ga-species forming molecular hydrogen with
concurrent hydrogen transfer from the b-carbon regenerating the Ga-H
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
112
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
species was also found to have a high activation barrier. Based on these results,
the authors argued against Ga-species coordinated to a single Al site being the
active species for Ga/ZSM-5 systems. In an attempt to ﬁnd a catalytic Ga-site
that facilitates the desorption of the alkyl fragment, the authors computed
ethane dehydrogenation pathways via carbenium activation on three Al-pair
sites interacting with [GaH]2þ species. Figure 14 shows the mechanistic path
of ethane dehydrogenation over an Al-pair site with Al atoms located 4.6 A
˚
apart along the walls of the sinusoidal channel near the intersection of the
straight and sinusoidal channels in MFI. Comparing the three different Al-
pair sites, the authors ﬁnd a simple correlation between the Al-Al distance
and the dehydrogenation activity. Al-pair sites in close proximity have high
Figure 13: (a) Alkyl mechanism for ethane activation on GaH2
þ species involving formation of
C2H5
d- and Hdþ adapted from Frash and van Santen [333]. Activation energies speciﬁed in
kcal/mol. Reprinted with permission from [333]. Copyright (2000) American Chemical Society;
(b) Carbenium mechanism for ethane activation on GaH2
þ species involving formation of
C2H5
dþ and Hd- adapted from Frash and van Santen [333]. Activation energies speciﬁed
in kcal/mol. Reprinted with permission from [333]. Copyright (2000) American Chemical
Society.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
113
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
C-H activation barriers and low H2 recombinative desorption barriers while
the converse is true for Al-pair sites at larger distances. The authors hence
propose that this correlation may enable the dehydrogenation activity of the
Ga/ZSM-5 to be controlled based on zeolite-synthesis protocols and Si/Al
ratios and have reinforced these conclusions in their recent publication that
provides a detailed thermochemical analysis of Ga-sites under alkane aromati-
zation conditions (335). The authors also comment that [GaH]2þ type species
may not be stable in a reducing atmosphere. Indeed such [GaH]2þ species
have not been experimentally veriﬁed, however, the presence of such species
as minority sites with much higher reactivity cannot be ruled out based on
the experimental studies described above.
Figure 14: Carbenium mechanistic path for C2H6 dehydrogenation on Z2-[GaH2]2þ site with
two Al atoms located in the eight-membered ring adapted from Joshi and Thomson [334].
Reprinted with permission from [334]. Copyright (2005) Elsevier.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
114
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
Pidko et al. (336) in a DFT study (B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) have compared the
stability of Gaþ, GaH2
þ and GaH2þ species and investigated C2H6 activation
on these Ga species. Univalent (Gaþ and GaH2
þ) cations were found to be
more stable compared to GaH2þ for Al atoms situated 8 A
˚ apart while the
bivalent GaH2þ was the most stable Ga species for Al atoms at a distance
of  4.8 A
˚ . The authors disagree with the work Joshi and Thomson (334) and
conclude that the bivalent Ga species react via the ‘alkyl’ pathway and
during the course of the reaction are transformed to univalent species. They
instead propose that Gaþ species are the active species because the decompo-
sition of the GaH2
þ ions, resulting in the formation of Gaþ, is signiﬁcantly
favored versus the regeneration of GaH2
þ species due to entropic consider-
ations. The reaction over the Gaþ species is proposed to occur via the heteroly-
tic cleavage of the C-H bond by the Ga-O Lewis acid-base pair forming a [H-Ga-
C2H5]þ intermediate which decomposes via simultaneous desorption of H2 and
C2H4 regenerating the initial Gaþ species as shown in Figure 15. With refer-
ence to the claim from Kazansky et al. (329) that gallium hydride species
once formed decompose only at T .673 K in vacuum, it is not clear from the
work of Pidko et al. (336) whether GaH2
þ species may be kinetically trapped
under reaction conditions.
In summary, most experimental studies agree with a reduced gallium
species residing at cation exchange positions as the catalytically active site.
More recent theoretical studies from Joshi et al. (334) and Pidko et al. (336),
and experimental studies from Kazansky et al. (330) have suggested different
Figure 15: Homolytic (a) and heterolytic (b) ‘alkyl’ pathway for C2H6 activation on Gaþ
cation exchanged species adapted from Pidko et al. [336]. Reprinted with permission from
[336]. Copyright (2006) Elsevier.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
115
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
structures for these reduced Ga-species. Whether gallium hydride species are
kinetically trapped under reaction environments or whether Gaþ cations
epitaxed to the zeolite represent the active form of the Ga-species is equivocal
at this point. Having established the dynamic nature of the catalytic site
involved, we focus on the chemical role of the gallium species in the next
section.
4.4.
Role of Framework and Nonframework Gallium
Cations
Kanai and Kawata (337) reported that the aromatization of n-hexane (773
K, WHSV of hexane ¼ 2 h21) over gallosilicate and galloaluminosilicate
materials was enhanced by addition of 0.7 wt% of Ga3þ as Ga2O3. This
suggests that extraframework gallium cations are much more reactive for aro-
matization than framework Ga species. This view was reinforced by the
decrease in activity observed removing non-framework gallium species
washing in HCl. Khodakov et al. (338) found the catalytic activity of
H-GaMFI to be considerably less than that of HZSM-5 and 1.5% Ga/HZSM-5
for propane aromatization (623–873 K). Upon successive regeneration cycles
the activity of the H-GaMFI was observed to increase with concurrent
release of at least part of the gallium from the zeolite framework as evidenced
by IR and EPR studies, Bayense et al. (339) studied a 50 wt% physical mixture
of a GAPSO-11 and HZSM-5 (623–873 K, WHSV ¼ 2 h21). Initial activity for
this mixture was comparable to HZSM-5 implying that tetrahedral gallium
species in GAPSO-11 were catalytically inactive, while activity increased
upon regeneration, and was ascribed to removal of gallium from the GAPSO-
11 framework and subsequent transfer of this gallium to extraframework pos-
itions in the zeolite lattice.
Giannetto et al. (340) found HZSM-5 (Si/Al ¼ 30) to be 7 times more active
than MFI gallosilicates (Si/Ga ¼ 30) for propane transformation (803 K,
Pressure ¼ 1 Atm.) and attributed this difference in activity to the weaker
acid strength of the gallosilicate material. Treatment of the gallosilicate
material at 973–1073 K under dry air caused a signiﬁcant increase in the cat-
alytic activity while retaining high crystallinity as evidenced by XRD. The
observed product distribution characterized by a cracking to dehydrogenation
ratio (C/D ratio) was altered signiﬁcantly, with much higher production of
hydrogen being observed after extraction of part of the gallium from the
zeolite lattice. In a separate study, Giannetto et al. (309) showed that
H-GaMFI zeolite calcined at 1023 K was more active and selective for
propane aromatization than a material calcined at 803 K. The extraframework
gallium species resulting from high temperature calcination resulted in a
product distribution very similar to that observed for bifunctional Ga2O3/
HZSM-5 materials. XPS studies on materials calcined at 1023 K indicated
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
116
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
that the extraframework gallium species produced during degalliation migrate
inside the zeolite channels.
While discussing the aging characteristics of Ga/HZSM-5 materials upon
successive regeneration cycles, Abdul Hamid and coworkers (313, 314) classi-
ﬁed gallium entities into framework, dispersed and non-dispersed. The
initial gallium material prepared upon ion exchange or incipient wetness is
comprised of a non-dispersed gallium phase which undergoes dispersion
upon hydrogen reduction. A part of these gallium species heal defects in the
zeolite lattice and hence are incorporated into the framework, while the
remaining are well dispersed in the zeolite micropores. As discussed in
section 4.2., the authors observed that over successive regeneration cycles,
the activity was optimal when the dispersed gallium phase was optimum
(calculated based on NMR, NH3 TPD) and decayed over time due to aggrega-
tion of these dispersed gallium species to non-dispersed gallium species.
In a series of publications Choudhary and coworkers (324, 325, 341–345)
have compared the catalytic behavior of HZSM-5, Ga/HZSM-5, H-GaMFI
and H-GaAlMFI for propane, ethylene, n-butene and n-heptane aromatization
with varying Si/Al ratios and gallium loadings. Increasing Ga/Hþ content in
these materials typically enhanced the dehydrogenation function, however,
propane conversion did not increase linearly with Ga or Hþ content implying
that a balance between the dehydrogenation and acid function is required for
obtaining optimal propane conversion. It was also found that the gallium
species were only effective in presence of Brønsted acidity as Na exchange or
titration of the Brønsted sites by pyridine resulted in signiﬁcant loss of
activity. For most applications H-GaAlMFI was found to be more active than
Ga/HZSM-5 and H-GaMFI and the authors claimed that this was because of
the highly dispersed non-framework gallium species formed due to high temp-
erature and steam treatments on these materials being in proximity to zeolite
Brønsted acid sites. The authors could not reconcile the þ3 oxidation state of
the Ga and the high concentration of strong acid sites measured by pyridine
adsorption, and hence, concluded that the Ga-species must exist in the þ1 oxi-
dation state, although a fraction of the gallium was also postulated to exist as
Ga2O3. Montes and Giannetto (346) examined the effects of steam dealumina-
tion of H-GaAlMFI (Ga/Al ¼ 0.5) and observed synergistic effects between Hþ
sites and extraframework gallium species (EFGS). An optimum ratio of 0.5
between the EFGS content and the Hþ content was observed for propane
aromatization (803 K, PC3H8 ¼ 1 Atmosphere) with the stoichiometry of the
gallium exchange corresponding to Gaþ1 cations replacing Hþ sites. The
value of the optimal Ga/Hþ ratio computed by Montes et al. is in good agree-
ment with the value of 0.45 for the Ga/(Ga þ Hþ) ratio reported by Kwak
and Sachtler (347) for propane aromatization at 803 K and WHSV ¼ 456 h21
and propene aromatization at 773 K and WHSV ¼ 2156 h21 (Si/Al ¼ 20.1).
Kwak and Sachtler (347) conclude that gallium sites act as Lewis acid sites
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
117
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
that are active for dehydrogenation by hydride abstraction, however, do not
speciﬁcally identify reaction steps which gallium sites do not participate in
which results in the observed optimal Ga/Hþ formulation.
In summary, catalytic activity in gallium modiﬁed HZSM-5 catalysts arises
primarily due to extraframework gallium species located at cation exchange
positions. There exists an optimal gallium loading in these materials in agree-
ment with the bifunctional nature of this catalytic system. This Ga/Hþ ratio
could hence be optimized to obtain desired yields or product selectivities.
4.5.
Chemical Role of Gallium
The Ga/HZSM-5 catalytic system has been established as bifunctional.
However, the individual elementary steps catalyzed by the gallium sites
have been the topic of intense discussion in the literature. Our discussion
focuses on the modiﬁcation of HZSM-5 catalytic pathways which are typically
deduced from the changes in the observed product distribution upon addition of
gallium.
4.5.1.
Alkane Activation
An initial and direct carbenium ion formation on Lewis acid centers formed
by the gallium sites has been considered by several authors (339, 348). Accord-
ing to Bayense et al. (339), a hydride ion is abstracted from the alkane by the
coordinatively unsaturated gallium site. This hydride species combines with
the Brønsted acid proton to give off molecular hydrogen and the carbenium
ion formed by hydride abstraction compensates the charge on the lattice
oxygen. Subsequent decomposition of this carbenium ion species regenerates
the acid site and forms an alkene. Hence, the primary role of the gallium
species in this model is hydride abstraction from the alkane to form the
reactive carbenium ion and can be summarized as follows:
a.
L þ CnH2nþ2 
! L-H2 þ CnH2nþ1
þ
;
b.
CnH2nþ1
þ
þ ZO2Hþ þ L-H2 
! ZO2CnH2nþ1
þ
þ H2 þ L; and
c.
ZO2CnH2nþ1
þ

! ZO-Hþ þ CnH2n.
Schulz and Baerns (349) also concluded that the role of the Ga2O3 mainly
located on the external surface of the zeolite crystallites was to dehydrogenate
hydrocarbons while the acid centers along with the shape selective properties
of the HZSM-5 were responsible for further oligomerization and cyclization
reactions. Based on the observed product distribution for butanes and
pentanes over Zn, Ga and Ag modiﬁed ZSM-5, Ono and coworkers (348) also
concluded that the metal cations abstract H2 or CH3
2 ions from alkanes to
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
118
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
form carbenium ions and that the rate of reaction follows the stability of the
carbenium ions formed. The possibility of dissociative adsorption of hydrogen
over Ga2O3 has been conﬁrmed by IR investigations (350). On similar lines,
several probe reaction studies conducted on Ga2O3 by Gnep and coworkers
(290, 351, 352) and Meriaudeau et al. (353) indicate that gallium oxide has cat-
alytic activity for dehydrogenation reactions, while no C-C bond cleavage
occurs on these sites, however, the existence of Ga2O3 species under strongly
reducing environments is unlikely.
In agreement with TPR studies that suggest reduction of gallium only
occurs in presence of Brønsted acid sites, kinetic studies show that Ga/
HZSM-5 is 100 times more active than Ga/NaZSM-5 (1, 354) and no reduction
of the Ga species in Ga/NaZSM-5 occurs (99, 355). These bifunctional systems
however, cannot be categorized with bifunctional acid-redox behavior observed
in conventional petroleum reﬁning process such as hydrocracking and hydroi-
somerization because unlike catalysts in reﬁning processes the Ga species com-
pensates for the Brønsted acid sites.
Several mechanisms for alkane activation in these systems have been
proposed involving the concerted action of Hþ sites and the nonframework
gallium sites. The synergism between these sites could occur at various
stages of the activation process, e.g., concerted initial C-H bond activation,
recombinative desorption of hydride ions and Brønsted acid protons to form
molecular hydrogen, or during the decomposition of alkyl intermediates
bound to gallium species.
Buckles and Hutchings (295, 296, 319) propose that propane is activated at
the interface between Ga2O3 and the zeolite Brønsted acid site with the initial
step being the polarization of the C-H bond by the gallium oxide species with
subsequent cleavage of the polarized C-H bond at the Brønsted acid site.
Meriaudeau and Naccache (354) also postulated that gallium oxide abstracts
hydride ions to create carbenium ions, but, claimed a spillover of C3H7
þ carbe-
nium ions to Brønsted acid sites as a necessary intermediate step. The rapid
exchange of propyl carbenium ions through alkyl surface migration facilitates
the desorption of propene from the zeolite.
Based on 13C MAS NMR studies performed on Ga/silicalite, Ga/HZSM-5
and HZSM-5 catalysts, some investigators (144, 356, 357) have proposed the
bifunctional reaction step mechanism for the activation of propane on Ga/
HZSM-5 at low temperatures (shown in Figure 16). Propane is proposed to
interact heterolytically with the (Ga3þ, O2-) ion pair via a positively and a nega-
tively charged hydrogen atom, and is further converted into a pseudocyclo-
propane (PCCP) entity which is protonated by the Brønsted acid site. This
scheme explains the 13C scrambling observed at 5 minutes-on-stream for
propane-2-13C as reactant in absence of parallel reactions by considering the
rearrangement of the cyclic PCCP intermediate. The C-C bond cleavage in
the proposed mechanism accounts for the production of methane, ethylene,
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
119
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
ethane and CH3
þ cations, as well as iso-butane being formed as a primary
product by the reaction of the methoxy species with propane.
The DFT study by Frash and van Santen (333) contradicts the above exper-
imental studies in that the activation of ethane is proposed to occur via alkyl
polarization and the rupture of a C-H bond (C2H5
d--Hdþ) which is calculated
to have a 30 kcal/mol lower barrier compared to the carbenium activation
(C2H5
dþ-Hd-) pathway involving the formation of a primary ethyl cation. As dis-
cussed previously, Joshi et al. (334) calculate the carbenium type pathway to be
favorable for [GaH]2þ species compared to the alkyl activation pathway on
monomeric [GaH]þ species. An Evans-Polanyi-type relation was found for
[GaH]2þ species with either initial C-H activation or H2 recombinative deso-
rption being rate limiting depending on the Al-Al distance. The more recent
theoretical study from Pidko et al. (336), as well as the recent experimental
work from Kazansky et al. (330) has suggested instead, the alkyl activation
of C2H6 with formation of a [H-Ga-C2H5]þ species.
In summary, although for Brønsted acid site catalyzed reactions it is now
established that alkoxide intermediates are involved that react via carbocatio-
nic transition states, the mechanism for propane activation, as well as the
nature of the surface intermediates and transition states involved, in Ga/
HZSM-5 bifunctional materials remains a topic for active research.
4.5.2.
Reaction Scheme
As discussed in sections 4.1.–4.3., gallium sites are only effective in
presence of Brønsted acid sites, implying that the reactions occurring on
gallium sites cannot be studied in absence of concurrent reactions on
Brønsted acid sites. The chemical role of gallium is largely inferred from com-
parisons of observed product distributions on HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 cata-
lysts, and our discussion below reviews kinetic, isotopic and 13C MAS NMR
studies from the literature in this regard. Although the dehydrogenation
function of gallium modiﬁed materials has been established, due to the
Figure 16: Mechanism for the bifunctional activation of propane on Ga-containing H-MFI
catalysts reproduced from Derouane et al. [316]. Reprinted with permission from [316].
Copyright (1994) Elsevier.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
120
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
complexity of the reaction network and the synergistic interaction between the
Gaþ and Hþ sites the role of gallium sites in several other reactions has not
been unequivocally addressed.
Based on the observed product distribution for Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts,
Kitagawa et al. (302) concluded that gallium species did not participate in
alkane activation, but efﬁciently transformed the intermediate oleﬁnic
products into aromatic hydrocarbons. This suggestion was disputed by Gnep
and coworkers (1, 290, 351, 352). Based on probe reactions employing
propane, propene, 1-hexene, 1-heptene, methylcyclohexene, and methylcyclo-
hexane over Ga2O3 they concluded that the role of gallium species was to
enhance dehydrogenation. On similar lines, probe reaction studies by Meriau-
deau and Naccache (353) on gallium oxide showed activity for dehydrogenation
with no C-C bond cleavage occurring on these sites. However, as discussed in
Section 4.3., Ga species are unlikely to exist as gallium oxide under reaction
conditions. Analyzing initial product selectivities, Kwak et al. (117) found
that the addition of Ga to HZSM-5 had no signiﬁcant effect on the rate of
propane cracking but increased the dehydrogenation rate 7.7-fold at 803 K. A
similar enhancement in the dehydrogenation activity has been observed by
several other research groups (1, 99, 137, 358). The role of Ga-sites for C-C
bond cleavage however, is not widely agreed upon. As described in Section.
4.5.1. above, on the basis of 13C in situ MAS NMR experiments, Derouane
and coworkers (356, 357) have also proposed C-C bond activation to occur via
the bifunctional reaction step mechanism on these systems. Based on the
observed product distribution for butane and pentane cracking on metal
modiﬁed ZSM-5 zeolites, Ono et al. (348) have also concluded that CH3
2 abstrac-
tion and hence C-C bond cleavage occurs on Ga/HZSM-5 materials. The higher
production of methane in cracking products of methylcyclohexane over reduced
Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts was considered by Barre et al. (358) to be indicative of
the hydrogenolysis activity of gallium sites. Price et al. (359) found no
evidence for C-C bond cleavage during dehydrocyclodimerization reactions of
propane on proton-poor, high gallium loading ZSM-5 materials and instead
consider an alkylation pathway involving oleﬁns for the chain growth
process resulting in the formation of aromatics.
Inui (360) studied Pt promoted gallosilicate formulations and argued that
the gallium species have little dehydrogenation activity and the main catalytic
role of gallium species was to prevent the hydrogenation of oleﬁns to alkanes.
Hydrogen atoms at the zeolite surface migrate to gallium sites where they
combine to give molecular hydrogen which desorbs. This effect is called ‘back
hydrogen spillover’. A similar explanation has been proposed by researchers
(120, 288, 289, 361), wherein reverse hydrogen spillover was suggested to
occur across particle boundaries thereby enabling enhanced activity for
n-butane conversion upon co-extrusion of gallium supported on silica, quartz
and alumina with HZSM-5.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
121
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
In a series of studies, Iglesia and coworkers (132, 133, 137, 139, 362) have
employed H/D and
13C isotopic scrambling to argue that desorption of
H-adatoms formed in intermediate dehydrogenation steps limits alkane acti-
vation and, that the role of metal cations is to catalyze recombinative deso-
rption of hydrogen. Signiﬁcant H-D cross-exchange between C3D8 and C3H8
was measured on HZSM-5 and Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts, even at low conversions,
leading to a statistical isotopomer distribution. Since cross-exchange occurs
by stepwise transfer of single H and D-atoms, it was concluded that C-H
bond activation on both catalysts is similar and hence C-H bond activation
does not limit activity on HZSM-5. The lack of a kinetic isotopic effect was
explained on the basis of cancellation of easier cleavage of the weaker C-H
bond in turn being accompanied by a stronger C-D bond formation between
the unsaturated hydrocarbon and the adsorbed D-atom. Gallium was con-
sidered to provide a porthole for hydrogen recombinative desorption as
gallium addition markedly increased propane conversion but did not increase
the C-H bond activation rate. No isotopic scrambling was observed on
NaZSM-5 also suggesting that Brønsted acid sites are required for C-H bond
activation. Narbeshuber et al. (111) and Lercher et al. (131) have proposed
different transition states and hence different C-H activation pathways for
H/D exchange and protolytic dehydrogenation on HZSM-5 catalysts. On the
basis of theoretical as well as experimental studies, H/D exchange was found
to be an order of magnitude faster than protolytic dehydrogenation and
hence, the results from the above isotopic scrambling studies may also be inter-
preted in terms of product formation and rapid exchange. This explanation
would also extend to the lack of scrambling observed on NaZSM-5 since accord-
ing to the mechanisms proposed by Lercher and coworkers this reaction is cat-
alyzed by the Brønsted acid sites of the zeolite. Frash and van Santen (333)
have also questioned the ‘porthole’ mechanism postulated for gallium sites
and have evaluated the recombinative desorption (step 2 in Figure 13(a)) to
be facile (less than 2 kcal/mol) in their quantum chemical study of ethane acti-
vation on a gallium exchanged zeolite material.
Iglesia and coworkers have attributed a statistical binomial distribution of
D-atoms in each reaction product for reactions of C3H8/D2 mixtures on HZSM-
5 to multiple exchange events with a common surface hydrogen pool. For Ga/
ZSM-5 formulations also, a statistical distribution of D-atoms was obtained,
however, the deuterium fraction within all products was observed to be much
higher than that noted for HZSM-5. Hence, gas phase H2 and HD which are
much more abundant in case of Ga/HZSM-5, communicated more effectively
with the reaction products in presence of gallium. Gonzales and coworkers
(363) have proposed an alternative mechanism based on their DFT study of
H/D exchange on Ga/HZSM-5. They compute more facile H/D exchange on
HZSM-5 compared to Ga/HZSM-5. Their alternate explanation considers
easier dissociation of D2 on Ga/HZSM-5 compared to HZSM-5, surface
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
122
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
migration of these D atoms to Brønsted acid sites where H-D recombination
occurs.
Biscardi and Iglesia (137) have measured the chemical and isotopic compo-
sition of reaction products formed from reactions of unlabelled propene and
propane-2-13C to study the initial rate of dehydrogenation of propane. Initial
reaction products on HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 do not contain 13C and are
formed predominantly from unlabelled propene molecules in the feed
mixture showing that alkenes are required intermediates in propane conver-
sion. The rate of
13C scrambling between propane-2-13C and unlabelled
propene measured by the decrease in 13C content in the propane reactant,
was found to decrease more slowly on Ga- and Zn- modiﬁed HZSM-5
compared to unmodiﬁed HZSM-5, suggesting that the rate of propene hydro-
genation to propane decreases when gallium is added. These data appear con-
tradictory to the enhanced dehydrogenation activity expected on metal
modiﬁed HZSM-5. However, the authors explained this result by considering
that Ga and Zn cations also increase the rate of propene conversion to aro-
matics. Hence, for the reaction scheme shown in Eq. (7), gallium, and zinc
inﬂuence both the initial dehydrogenation step and the subsequent dehydro-
genation steps for the conversion of propene to aromatics.
C3H8 O
r1
r1 C3H6 !
r2
Products
ð7Þ
The rate of isotopic scrambling between propane-2-13C and unlabelled
propene was used to calculate the relative rate of propene hydrogenation
(r1) and conversion to other products (r2). The values of (r21/r2) extrapolated
to zero conversion were 0.55 (HZSM-5), 0.23 (Zn/HZSM-5) and 0.02 (Ga/
HZSM-5). Since the (r21/r2) ratio is less than unity, the dehydrogenation
step is not equilibrated and the introduction of gallium or zinc results in
this step becoming even more irreversible because the subsequent dehydro-
genation reactions are inﬂuenced more than the initial dehydrogenation
reaction.
In summary, although Ga-modiﬁed materials have been proven to have
enhanced dehydrogenation functionality, the exact mechanism of gallium cat-
alysis remains disputed in the literature. The outstanding questions are: (i) the
role of gallium in the initial C-C bond cleavage of propane, (ii) whether alky-
lation reactions over gallium sites as proposed by Price et al. (359) occur or
not, and (iii) the particular step in the acid catalyzed mechanism that does
not occur on gallium sites since an optimal Ga/Hþ ratio has been observed
(347).
4.5.3.
Kinetic Studies
Meriaudeau et al. (364) studied propane transformation as a function of
the pressures of propane and hydrogen on HZSM-5 (Si/Al ¼ 15), GaMFI
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
123
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
(Si/Ga ¼ 45) and Ga-loaded zeolites (0.6 and 1.0 wt% of Ga). For the kinetic
studies, the C3H8 pressure was varied from 8 to 101 kPa with nitrogen as a
diluent while the effect of hydrogen partial pressure was studied at a
constant partial pressure of propane (8 kPa). Conversion was maintained
below 1% in order to avoid secondary reactions. Reaction kinetics over
HZSM-5 and GaMFI could be described by a ﬁrst order dependence on the
propane partial pressure and zero order dependence on the hydrogen partial
pressure. Identical product distributions on HZSM-5 and GaMFI implied
that the same monomolecular acid catalyzed mechanisms were prevalent on
both catalysts.
The presence of extraframework gallium species was observed to enhance
the activity for propane conversion as well as the selectivity for dehydrogena-
tion. The rate equation over Ga/GaMFI and Ga/HZSM-5 catalysts was given
by the expression in Eq. (8):
r ¼ kpC3H8
0:6px
H2
ð8Þ
The value of x was not precisely determined. The negative order in
hydrogen could be explained by the ‘porthole’ recombinative desorption mech-
anism equivalently as the competitive adsorption of hydrogen on extraframe-
work gallium species in a Langmuir-Hinshelwood model.
As discussed in section 3.2., Guisnet and coworkers (271, 274, 276) have
developed kinetic models for propane aromatization on HZSM-5 and Ga/
HZSM-5. Reactions over zeolite and gallium sites were treated independently
resulting in 276 reaction steps. Kinetic studies were performed at 803 K over
a 4 wt% Ga impregnated HZSM-5 catalyst with a Si/Al ratio of 40 (Ga/
Al ¼ 1.47) at atmospheric pressure of propane over a contact time range of
0–0.6 h21. It is not clear however, what fraction of Brønsted acid sites were
considered to be compensated by the gallium ion exchanged species. To
reduce the number of parameters involved, isomers were neglected and rate
constants of transformation of C4
þ hydrocarbons over gallium catalytic sites
as well as rate constants applicable to C4
¼-C10
¼ over acidic sites were considered
to be independent of hydrocarbon molecular weight.
The model developed by Lukyanov et al. (271) allows estimation of
the individual
contribution from Brønsted and Ga-modiﬁed sites. For
Ga-modiﬁed systems the relative contribution of hydride transfer reactions
to the observed product distribution is noted to decrease while the dehydro-
genation of propane is observed to increase by seven times. A signiﬁcant
concentration of methane that could not be accounted for by considering
only protolytic cracking over Brønsted sites led Guisnet and coworkers to
postulate that gallium catalytic sites should be active in the hydrogenolysis
of
methyl-substituted
aromatics.
Signiﬁcant
ethane
production
was
accounted for on the basis of hydrogenation of ethylene on gallium catalytic
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
124
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
sites. Gallium sites are also postulated to be active for dehydrogenation reac-
tions to form dioleﬁns and aromatics. We note that certain steps in the
reaction sequence (for example cyclization) are proposed to occur only on
Brønsted acid sites while Ga-sites are postulated to enhance the rates of
several dehydrogenation steps; this mechanistic picture would be consistent
with an optimal catalyst formulation based on the ratio of Ga/Hþ sites
(section 4.4.).
In summary, the kinetics of such a complicated hydrocarbon system with
hundreds of components and thousands of reactions is difﬁcult to interpret in
terms of pseudocomponent models and unimolecular kinetics. Sophisticated
kinetic models like the ones developed by Guisnet and coworkers represent a
signiﬁcant improvement in understanding the activity of these catalytic
materials. However, the individual kinetic parameters for each elementary
step need to be identiﬁed over a diverse set of reaction conditions and feed-
stocks to develop better predictive capability. Several research groups have
observed
an
optimum
gallium
loading
(283,
298,
302,
341)–
(342, 346, 365, 366) for these catalytic materials which would suggest that
the
gallium
sites
do
not
participate
in
all
the
reaction
steps
for
dehydroaromatization.
4.6.
Summary of Ga/ZSM-5 Formulations
The bifunctional character of Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts with Ga replacing a
fraction of the Hþ sites and the inability of the Ga to catalyze all the steps in
the dehydroaromatization sequence implies a complex interplay between the
acid and metal functions. The dehydrogenation function of the Ga enhances
the concentration of oleﬁns in the gas phase which inﬂuences surface coverages
and hence the selectivity to unimolecular and bimolecular reaction steps occur-
ring over Brønsted acid sites; the chemistries on the Hþ sites in-turn provide
feedback to the Ga-sites by changing the gas-phase concentration of species
that correspondingly change the surface coverages and associated reaction
kinetics occurring on the metal centers. Central to this chemistry is developing
understanding of mechanistic pathways that are common to Hþ and Ga-
centers and their relative contributions to these pathways, and, delineating
pathways that only occur on Hþ sites. A related question is the chemical
state of the Ga active sites: do the Ga-species inter-convert between [Ga]þ,
[GaH]2þ, and [GaH2]þ depending on the H2 pressure in the gas phase and
Al-Al distances and how are the rate constants for C-C and C-H bond
cleavage inﬂuenced by these transitions? Coupled kinetic and thermochemical
models that rigorously describe the prevalent Ga-composition and rate par-
ameters would enable a uniﬁed description of this system and allow the Ga/
Hþ ratio to be optimized for the discovery of formulations for speciﬁc
applications.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
125
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
5.
CONCLUSIONS
HZSM-5 catalyzes the activation of light alkanes via penta-coordinated carbo-
nium-ion-like transition states resulting in the formation of neutral surface
alkoxide species that subsequently undergo reaction via carbenium-ion-like
transition states. Although a number of the elementary reactions remain
experimentally
inaccessible,
theoretical
computational
studies,
typically
based on the cluster approximation, have signiﬁcantly advanced our mechan-
istic
understanding
of
these
reactions.
Quantitative
modeling
studies
although not directly comparable across different systems, have attempted to
capture mechanistic chemistry in terms of rate and equilibrium constants of
the model and have also signiﬁcantly enhanced our understanding of compli-
cated hydrocarbon reactions on zeolites. It is apparent however, that mechan-
isms concerning bimolecular reactions in particular, remain elusive from an
experimental, theoretical and modeling standpoint in these systems. Gallium
modiﬁed ZSM-5 catalysts are bifunctional systems wherein the catalyst is gen-
erated in situ. Extraframework gallium species at cation exchange positions
are active for dehydrogenation in this system. Synergistic interaction
between the gallium and HZSM-5 implies that the chemical role of gallium
cannot be studied in isolation. Because of these interactions, deactivation
with time-on-stream for Ga/ZSM-5 catalysts, and few theoretical and kinetic
modeling studies, certain questions regarding the structure of the active
gallium species and the chemical role of gallium remain outstanding.
Optimum Ga/Hþ ratios observed for this system suggest that a balance of
Ga and Hþ sites are required, however; the particular mechanistic steps that
gallium species catalyze remain a topic of active research.
6.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Financial support for this work was provided by the Department of Energy,
Ofﬁce of the Basic Energy Sciences, through the Catalysis Science Grant
number DE-FG01-03ER15466.
REFERENCES
[1] Guisnet, M.S.; Gnep, N.S.; Alario, F. Aromatization of Short Chain Alkanes on
Zeolite Catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 1992, 89, 1–30.
[2] Chen, N.Y.; Yan, T.Y. M2 Forming—A process for Aromatization of Light Hydro-
carbons. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Res. Dev. 1986, 25, 151–155.
[3] Venuto, P.B. Organic Catalysis Over Zeolites: A Perspective on Reaction Paths
within Micropores. Microporous Materials 1994, 2, 297–411.
[4] Rabo, J.A.; Gajda, G.J. Acid Function in Zeolites: Recent Progress. Catal. Rev.-Sci.
Eng. 1989, 31, 385–430.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
126
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[5] Corma, A. Inorganic Solid Acids and Their Use in Acid-Catalyzed Hydrocarbon
Reactions. Chemical Reviews 1995, 95, 559–614.
[6] Farneth, W.E.; Gorte, R.J. Methods for Characterizing Zeolite Acidity. Chemical
Reviews 1995, 95, 615–635.
[7] van Santen, R.A.; Kramer, G.M. Reactivity Theory of Zeolitic Brønsted Acid Sites.
Chemical Reviews 1995, 95, 637–660.
[8] Corma, A. State of the Art and Future Challenges of Zeolites as Catalysts. Journal
of Catalysis 2003, 216, 298–312.
[9] Chatterjee, A.; Iwasaki, T.; Ebina, T.; Miyamoto, A. Density Functional Study for
Estimating Brønsted Acid Site Strength in Isomorphously Substituted ZSM-5.
Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 1998, 21, 421–428.
[10] Strodel, P.; Neyman, K.M.; Knozinger, H.; Rosch, N. Acidic Properties of [Al], [Ga]
and [Fe] Isomorphously Substituted Zeolites. Density Functional Model Cluster of
the Complexes with a Probe CO Molecule. Chemical Physics Letters 1995, 240,
547–552.
[11] O’Malley, P.J.; Dwyer, J. An ab initio Quantum Chemical Investigation on the
Effect of the Magnitude of the T-O-T Angle on the Brønsted Acid Characteristics
of Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. 1988, 92, 3005–3007.
[12] Alvarado-Swaisgood, A.E.; Barr, M.K.; Hay, P.J.; Redondo, A. Ab initio Quantum
Chemical Calculations of Aluminum Substitution in Zeolite ZSM-5. J. Phys.
Chem. 1991, 95, 10,031–10,036.
[13] Lonsinger, S.R.; Chakraborty, A.; Theodorou, D.N.; Bell, A.T. The Effects of Local
Structural Relaxation on Aluminum Siting within H-ZSM-5. Catalysis Letters
1991, 11, 209–218.
[14] Schroder, K.-P.; Sauer, J.; Leslie, M.; Catlow, C.R.A. Siting of Al and Bridging
Hydroxyl Groups in ZSM-5: A Computer Simulation Study. Zeolites 1992, 12,
20–23.
[15] Grau-Crespo, R.; Peralta, A.G.; Ruiz-Salvador, A.R.; Gomez, A.; Lopez-Cordero, L.
A Computer Simulation Study of Distribution, Structure and Acid Strength of
Active Sites in H-ZSM-5 Catalyst. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 5716–5722.
[16] Redondo, A.; Hay, P.J. Quantum Chemical Studies of Acid Sites in Zeolite ZSM-5.
J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97, 11,754–11,761.
[17] Chatterjee, A.; Vetrivel, R. Electronic and Structural Properties of Aluminum in
the ZSM-5 Framework. Microporous Materials 1994, 3, 211–218.
[18] Kramer, G.M.; van Santen, R.A. Theoretical Determination of Proton Afﬁnity
Differences in Zeolites. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1993, 115, 2887–2897.
[19] Cook, S.J.; Chakraborty, A.K.; Bell, A.T.; Theodorou, D.N. Structural and Elec-
tronic Features of a Brønsted Acid Site in H-ZSM-5. J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97,
6679–6685.
[20] Parr, R.G.; Donnelly, R.A.; Levy, M.; Palke, W.E. Electronegativity—Density
Functional Viewpoint. Journal of Chemical Physics 1978, 68, 3801–3807.
[21] Parr, R.G.; Pearson, R.G. Absolute Hardness: Companion Parameter to Absolute
Electronegativity. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1983, 105, 7512–7516.
[22] Brand, H.V.; Curtiss, L.A.; Iton, L.E. Computational Studies of Acid Sites in ZSM-
5: Dependence on Cluster Size. J. Phys. Chem. 1992, 96, 7725–7732.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
127
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[23] Brand, H.V.; Curtiss, L.A.; Iton, L.E. Ab initio Molecular Orbital Cluster Studies
of the Zeolite ZSM-5. 1. Proton Afﬁnities. J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97, 12,773–12,782.
[24] Eichler, U.; Brandle, M.; Sauer, J. Predicting Absolute and Site Speciﬁc Acidities
for Zeolite Catalysts by a Combined Quantum Mechanics/Interatomic Potential
Function Approach. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 10,035–10,050.
[25] Brandle, M.; Sauer, J. Acidity Differences between Inorganic Solids Induced by
their Framework Structure. A combined Quantum Mechanics/Molecular Mech-
anics ab initio Study on Zeolites. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 1556–1570.
[26] Sauer, J.; Sierka, M. Combining Quantum Mechanics and Interatomic Potential
Functions in Ab initio Studies of Extended Systems. Journal of Computational
Chemistry 2000, 21, 1470–1493.
[27] Bhan, A.; Joshi, Y.V.; Delgass, W.N.; Thomson, K.T. DFT Investigation of Alkoxide
Formation from Oleﬁns in H-ZSM-5. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003, 107, 10,476–10,487.
[28] Olson, D.H.; Haag, W.O.; Lago, R.M. Chemical and Physical Properties of the
ZSM-5 Substitutional Series. Journal of Catalysis 1980, 61, 390–396.
[29] Haag, W.O.; Lago, R.M.; Weisz, P.B. The Active Site of Acidic Aluminosilicate
Catalysts. Nature 1984, 309, 589–591.
[30] Haag, W.O. Catalysis by Zeolites—Science and Technology. Studies in Surface
Science and Catalysis 1994, 84, 1375–1394.
[31] Olson, D.H.; Haag, W.O.; Borghard, W.S. Use of Water as a Probe of Zeolitic Prop-
erties: Interaction of Water with HZSM-5. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
2000, 35–36, 435–446.
[32] Barthomeuf, D. Zeolite Acidity Dependence on Structure and Chemical Environ-
ment. Correlations with Catalysis. Materials Chemistry and Physics 1987, 17,
49–71.
[33] Hunger, B.; Heuchel, M.; Clark, L.A.; Snurr, R.Q. Characterization of Acidic OH
groups in Zeolites of Different Types: An Interpretation of NH3-TPD Results in
the Light of Conﬁnement Effects. J. Phys. Chem. B 2002, 106, 3882–3889.
[34] Sharma, S.B.; Meyers, B.L.; Chen, D.T.; Miller, J.; Dumesic, J.A. Characterization
of Catalyst Acidity by Microcalorimetry and Temperature-Programmed Deso-
rption. Applied Catalysis A: General 1993, 102, 253–265.
[35] Gorte, R.J. Design Parameters for Temperature Programmed Desorption from
Porous Catalysts. Journal of Catalysis 1982, 75, 164–174.
[36] Gorte, R.J.; Demmin, R.A. Design Parameters for Temperature-Programmed
Desorption from a Packed Bed. Journal of Catalysis 1984, 90, 32–39.
[37] Biaglow, A.I.; Gorte, R.J.; Kokotailo, G.T.; White, D. A Probe of Brønsted Site
Acidity in Zeolites: 13C Chemical Shift of Acetone. Journal of Catalysis 1994,
148, 779–786.
[38] Gorte, R.J. What do We Know About the Acidity of Solid Acids? Catalysis Letters
1999, 62, 1–13.
[39] Kofke, T.J.G.; Gorte, R.J.; Farneth, W.E. Stoichiometric Adsorption Complexes in
H-ZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 1988, 114, 34–45.
[40] Kofke, T.J.G.; Gorte, R. A Temperature-Programmed Desorption Study of Oleﬁn
Oligomerization in H-ZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 1989, 115, 233–243.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
128
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[41] Kofke, T.J.G.; Gorte, R.J.; Kokotailo, G.T.; Farneth, W.E. Stoichiometric Adsorp-
tion Complexes in HZSM-5, HZSM-12, and H-Mordenite Zeolites. Journal of
Catalysis 1989, 115, 265–272.
[42] Sepa, J.; Gorte, R.J.; Suits, B.H.; White, D. Molecular Motion of Methyl Rotor in a
Zeolite: Proton NMR Lineshapes of CH3CN-2HZSM-5 Adsorption Complex.
Chemical Physics Letters 1998, 289, 281–286.
[43] Datka, J.; Boczar, M.; Rymarowicz, P. Heterogeneity of OH Groups in NaH-ZSM-5
Zeolite Studies by Infrared-Spectroscopy. Journal of Catalysis 1988, 114,
368–376.
[44] Hunger, B.; Matysik, S.; Heuchel, M.; Einicke, W.D. Adsorption of Methanol on
ZSM-5 Zeolites. Langmuir 1997, 13, 6249–6254.
[45] Santilli, D.S.; Harris, T.V.; Zones, S.I. Inverse Shape Selectivity in Molecular
Sieves: Observations, Modeling and Predictions. Microporous Materials 1993, 1,
329–341.
[46] Martens, J.A.; Souverjins, W.; Verrelst, W.; Parton, R.; Froment, G.F.; Jacobs, P.A.
Selective Isomerization of Hydrocarbon Chains on External Surfaces of Zeolite
Crystals. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1995, 34, 2528–2530.
[47] Smit, B.; Maesen, T.L.M. Commensurate ‘Freezing’ of Alkanes in Channels of a
Zeolite. Nature 1995, 374, 42–44.
[48] van Well, W.J.M.; Wolthuizen, J.P.; Smit, B.; van Hooff, J.H.C.; van Santen, R.A.
Commensurate Freezing of n-Alkanes in Silicalite. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl.
1995, 34, 2543–2544.
[49] Derouane, E.G. Shape Selectivity in Catalysis by Zeolites: The Nest Effect.
Journal of Catalysis 1986, 100, 541–544.
[50] Stach, H.; Lohse, U.; Thamm, H.; Schrimer, W. Adsorption Equilibria of Hydrocar-
bons on Highly Dealuminated Zeolites. Zeolites 1986, 6, 74–90.
[51] Stach, H.; Fiedler, K.; Janchen, J. Correlation Between Initial Heats of Adsorption
and Structural Parameters of Molecular Sieves with Different Chemical Compo-
sition—A Calorimetric Study. Pure and Applied Chemistry 1993, 65, 2193–2200.
[52] Janchen, J.; Stach, H.; Uytterhoeven, L.; Mortier, W.J. Inﬂuence of the Frame-
work Density and the Effective Electronegativity of Silica and Aluminophosphate
Molecular Sieves on the Heat of Adsorption of Nonpolar Molecules. J. Phys. Chem.
1996, 100, 12,489–12,493.
[53] Van Genechten, K.A.; Mortier, W.J. Intrinsic Framework Electronegativity: A
Novel Concept in Solid State Chemistry. Journal of Chemical Physics 1987, 86,
5063–5071.
[54] Savitz, S.; Siperstein, F.; Gorte, R.J.; Myers, A.L. Calorimetric Study of Adsorp-
tion of Alkanes in High-Silica Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102, 6865–6872.
[55] Denayer, J.F.; Souverjins, W.; Jacobs, P.A.; Martens, J.A.; Baron, G.V. High-Temp-
erature Low-Pressure Adsorption of Branched C5-C8 Alkanes on Zeolite Beta,
ZSM-5, ZSM-22, Zeolite Y, and Modernite. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102,
4588–4597.
[56] Denayer, J.F.; Baron, G.V.; Martens, J.A.; Jacobs, P.A. Chromatographic Study of
Adsorption of n-Alkanes on Zeolites at High Temperatures. J. Phys. Chem. B
1998, 102, 3077–3081.
[57] Eder, F.; Lercher, J.A. Alkane Sorption on Siliceous and Aluminophsphate Mol-
ecular Sieves. A Comparative Study. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 16,460–16, 462.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
129
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[58] Derouane, E.G. The Energetics of Sorption by Molecular Sieves - Surface Curva-
ture Effects. Chemical Physics Letters 1987, 142, 200–204.
[59] Derouane, E.G.; Andre, J.-M. A Simple van der Waals Model for Molecule-Curved
Surface Interactions in Molecular-Sized Microporous Solids. Chemical Physics
Letters 1987, 137, 336–340.
[60] Derouane, E.G.; Nagy, J.B. Surface Curvature Effects on the NMR Chemical Shift
for Molecules Trapped in Microporous Solids. Chemical Physics Letters 1987, 137,
341–344.
[61] Bates, S.P.; van Well, W.J.M.; van Santen, R.A.; Smit, B. Energetics of n-Alkanes
in Zeolites: A Conﬁgurational-Bias Monte Carlo Investigation into Pore Size
Dependence. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 6753–6759.
[62] Eder, F.; Stockenhuber, M.; Lercher, J.A. Sorption of Light Alkanes on H-ZSM-5
and H-Mordenite. Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis 1995, 97, 495–500.
[63] Eder, F.; Lercher, J.A. On the Role of the Pore Size and Tortuosity for Sorption of
Alkanes in Molecular Sieves. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 1273–1278.
[64] Eder, F.; Lercher, J.A. Alkane Sorption in Molecular Sieves: The Contribution of
Ordering, Intermolecular Interactions, and Sorption on Brønsted Acid Sites.
Zeolites 1997, 18, 75–81.
[65] Eder, F.; Stockenhuber, M.; Lercher, J.A. Brønsted Acid Site and Pore Controlled
Siting of Alkane Sorption in Acidic Molecular Sieves. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101,
5414–5419.
[66] Lercher, J.A.; Seshan, K. Sorption and Activation of Hydrocarbons by Molecular
Sieves. Current Opinion In Solid State & Materials Science 1997, 2, 57–62.
[67] Arik, I.C.; Denayer, J.F.; Baron, G.V. High-Temperature Adsorption of n-Alkanes
on ZSM-5 Zeolites: Inﬂuence of the Si/Al Ratio and the Synthesis Method on the
Low-Coverage Adsorption Properties. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials
2003, 60, 111–124.
[68] Curtiss, L.A.; Zygmunt, S.A.; Iton, L.E. Ab initio and Density Functional Studies
of Hydrocarbon Adsorption in Zeolites. In Proceedings of the 12th International
Zeolite Conference; Treacy, M.M.J., Ed.; Materials Research Society: Baltimore,
1998, 415–421.
[69] Truitt, M.J.; Toporek, S.S.; Rovira-Hernandez, R.; Hatcher, K.; White, J.L. Identi-
ﬁcation of an Adsorption Complex Between an Alkane and Zeolite Active Sites.
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 11,144–11,145.
[70] Olson, D.H.; Reischman, P.T. Structure-Related Parafﬁn Sorption in ZSM-5.
Zeolites 1996, 17, 434–436.
[71] Derouane, E.G.; Nagy, J.B.; Fernandez, C.; Zelimir, G.; Laurent, E.; Maljean, P.
Diffusion of Alkanes in Molecular Sieves. Evidence for Conﬁnement Effects.
1988, 40, L1–L10.
[72] Derouane, E.G. Zeolites as Solid Solvents. Journal of Molecular Catalysis A:
Chemical 1998, 134, 29–45.
[73] Derouane, E.G.; Chang, C.D. Conﬁnement Effects in the Adsorption of Simple
Bases by Zeolites. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 2000, 35–36, 425–433.
[74] Derouane, E.G.; Davis, M.E. On the Polarizability of Molecular Sieves: 129Xe
NMR Chemical Shifts and Sorption Energetics. Journal of Molecular Catalysis
1988, 48, 37–41.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
130
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[75] Gorte, R.J.; White, D. Measuring Sorption Effects at Zeolite Acid Sites: Pursuing
Ideas from W.O. Haag. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 2000, 35–36,
447–455.
[76] Yang, L.; Trafford, K.; Kresnawahjuesa, O.; Sepa, J.; Gorte, R.J.; White, D. An
Examination of Conﬁnement Effects in High-Silica Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. B
2001, 105, 1935–1942.
[77] Lee, C.; Parrillo, D.J.; Gorte, R.J.; Farneth, W.E. Relationship between Differen-
tial Heats of Adsorption and Brønsted Acid Strengths of Acidic Zeolites: H-ZSM-5
and H-Mordenite. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1996, 118, 3262–3268.
[78] Zicovich-Wilson, C.M.; Corma, A.; Viruela, P. Electronic Conﬁnement of Mol-
ecules in Microscopic Pores. A New Concept Which Contributes to Explain the
Catalytic Activity of Zeolites. 1994, 98, 10,863–10,870.
[79] Corma, A.; Garcia, H.; Sastre, G.; Viruela, P. Activation of Molecules in Conﬁned
Spaces: An Approach to Zeolite-Guest Supramolecular Systems. J. Phys. Chem. B
1997, 101, 4575–4582.
[80] Corma, A. Covalent Interactions in Zeolites: The Inﬂuence of Zeolite Composition
and Structure on Acid Softness and Hardness. Studies in Surface Science and Cat-
alysis 1995, 94, 737–747.
[81] Kazansky, V.B.; Senchenya, I.N. Quantum Chemical Study of the Electronic
Structure and Geometry of Surface Alkoxy Groups as Probable Active Intermedi-
ates of Heterogeneous Acid Catalysts: What Are the Adsorbed Carbenium Ions.
Journal of Catalysis 1989, 119, 108–120.
[82] Kazansky, V.B. The Nature of Adsorbed Carbenium Ions as Active Intermediates
in Catalysis by Solid Acids. Acc. Chem. Res. 1991, 24, 379–383.
[83] Kazansky, V.B. Adsorbed Carbocations as Transition States in Heterogeneous
Acid Catalyzed Transformations of Hydrocarbons. Catalysis Today 1999, 51,
419–434.
[84] Rigby, A.M.; Kramer, G.J.; van Santen, R.A. Mechanisms of Hydrocarbon Conver-
sion in Zeolites: A Quantum Mechanical Study. Journal of Catalysis 1997, 170,
1–10.
[85] Boronat, M.; Zicovich-Wilson, C.M.; Viruela, P.; Corma, A. Inﬂuence of the Local
Geometry of Zeolite Active Sites and Oleﬁn Size on the Stability of Alkoxide Inter-
mediates. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 11,169–11,177.
[86] Natal-Santiago, M.A.; Alcala, R.; Dumesic, J.A. DFT Study of the Isomerization of
Hexyl Species Involved in the Acid-Catalyzed Conversion of 2-Methyl-Pentene-2.
Journal of Catalysis 1999, 181, 124–144.
[87] McVicker, G.B.; Kramer, G.M.; Ziemiak, J.J. Conversion of Isobutane Over Solid
Acids—A sensitive Mechanistic Probe Reaction. Journal of Catalysis 1983, 83,
286–300.
[88] Kramer, G.M.; McVicker, G.B.; Ziemiak, J.J. On the Question of Carbonium Ions
as Intermediates over Silica-Alumina and Acidic Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis
1985, 92, 355–363.
[89] Aronson, M.T.; Gorte, R.J.; Farneth, W.E.; White, D. 13C NMR Identiﬁcation of
Intermediates Formed by 2-Methyl-2-propanol Adsorption in H-ZSM-5. J. Am.
Chem. Soc. 1989, 111, 840–846.
[90] Haw, J.F.; Richardson, B.R.; Oshiro, B.R.; Lazo, N.D.; Speed, J.A. Reactions of
Propene on Zeolite HY Catalyst Studied by in situ Variable-Temperature Solid-
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
131
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
State Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1989, 111,
2052–2058.
[91] Datema, K.P.; Nowak, A.K.; Houckgeest, J.V.B.; Wielers, A.F.H. In-situ 13C Magic-
angle-spinning NMR Measurements of the Conversion of Ethene to Aliphatic
Hydrocarbons over Structurally Different Zeolites. Catalysis Letters 1991, 11,
267–276.
[92] Stepanov, A.G.; Luzgin, M.V.; Romannikov, V.N.; Sidelnikov, V.N.; Paukshtis, E.A.
The Nature, Structure, and Composition of Adsorbed Hydrocarbon Products of
Ambient Temperature Oligomerization of Ethylene on Acidic Zeolite H-ZSM-5.
Journal of Catalysis 1998, 178, 466–477.
[93] Nicholas, J.B.; Haw, J.F. The Prediction of Persistent Carbenium Ions in Zeolites.
Journal of the American Chemical Society 1998, 120, 11,804–11,805.
[94] Song, W.; Nicholas, J.B.; Haw, J.F. Acid-Base Chemistry of a Carbenium Ion in a
Zeolite under Equilibrium Conditions: Veriﬁcation of a Theoretical Explanation of
Carbenium Ion Stability. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2001, 123, 121–129.
[95] Boronat, M.; Viruela, P.M.; Corma, A. Reaction Intermediates in Acid Catalysis by
Zeolites: Prediction of the Relative Tendency to Form Alkoxides or Carbocations
as a Function of Hydrocarbon Nature and Active Site Structure. J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 2004, 126, 3300–3309.
[96] Scurrell, M.S. Prospects for the Direct Conversion of Light Alkanes to Petrochem-
ical Feedstocks and Liquid Fuels—A Review. Applied Catalysis 1987, 32, 1–22.
[97] Seddon, D. Parafﬁn Oligomerization to Aromatics. Catalysis Today 1990, 6,
351–372.
[98] Csiscery, S.M. Dehydrocyclodimerization. Ind. Eng. Chem. Process Res. Dev.
1979, 18, 191–197.
[99] Ono, Y. Transformation of Lower Alkanes into Aromatic hydrocarbons over ZSM-
5 Zeolites. Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 1992, 34, 179–226.
[100] Guisnet, M.S.; Gnep, N.S. Mechanism of Short-Chain Alkane Transformation
over
Protonic
Zeolites,
Alkylation,
Disproportionation
and
Aromatization.
Applied Catalysis A: General 1996, 146, 33–64.
[101] Hagen, A.; Roessner, F. Ethane to Aromatic Hydrocarbons: Past, Present, Future.
Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 2000, 42, 403–437.
[102] Caeiro, G.; Carvalho, R.H.; Wang, X.; Lemos, M.; Lemos, F.; Guisnet, M.;
Ribeiro, F.R. Activation of C2–C4 Alkanes Over Acid and Bifunctional Zeolite Cat-
alysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 2006, 255, 131–158.
[103] Bizreh, Y.W.; Gates, B.C. Butane Cracking Catalyzed by the Zeolite H-ZSM5.
Journal of Catalysis 1984, 88, 240–243.
[104] Haag, W.O.; Dessau, R.M. Duality of Mechanism for Acid-Catalyzed Parafﬁn
cracking. In Proceedings of the 8th International Congress on Catalysis, Berlin,
Vol. 2 (Verlag Chemie: Weinheim, 1984) II (1984) 305–316.
[105] Olah, G.A. The General Concept and Structure of Carbocations Based on Differ-
entiation of Trivalent (“Classical”) Carbenium Ions from Three-Center Bound
Penta- or Tetracoordinated (“Nonclassical”) Carbonium Ions. The Role of Carbo-
cations in Electrophilic Reactions. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1972, 94, 808–820.
[106] Corma, A.; Planelles, J.; Sanchez-Marin, J.; Tomas, F. The Role of Different Types
of Acid Site in the Cracking of Alkanes on Zeolite Catalysts. Journal of Catalysis
1985, 93, 30–37.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
132
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[107] Corma, A.; Monton, J.B.; Orchilles, A.V. Cracking of n-Heptane on a HZSM-5
Zeolite. The inﬂuence of Acidity and Pore Structure. Applied Catalysis 1985,
16, 59–74.
[108] McVicker, G.B.; Kramer, G.M. Comments on “The Mechanism of Isobutane
Cracking over Amorphous and Crystalline Silicoaluminates” by E A Lombardo
and W K Hall. Journal of Catalysis 1989, 115, 608–610.
[109] Hall, W.K.; Lombardo, E.; Engelhardt, J. In Reply to Kramer and McVicker.
Journal of Catalysis 1989, 115, 611–615.
[110] Krannila, H.; Haag, W.O.; Gates, B.C. Monomolecular and Bimolecular Mechan-
isms of Parafﬁn Cracking: n-butane cracking Catalyzed by HZSM5. Journal of
Catalysis 1992, 135, 115–124.
[111] Narbeshuber, T.F.; Vinek, H.; Lercher, J.A. Monomolecular Conversion of Light
Alkanes over H-ZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 1995, 157, 388–395.
[112] Bandiera, J.; Taarit, Y.B. Catalytic Investigation of the Dehydrogenation Proper-
ties of Pentasil Type Zeolites as Compared with their Cracking Properties.
Applied Catalysis 1990, 62, 309–316.
[113] Stefanadis, C.; Gates, B.C.; Haag, W.O. Rates of isobutane cracking catalyzed by
HZSM5: The carbonium ion route. Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1991, 67,
363–367.
[114] Rudham, R.; Winstanley, A.W. Propane Conversion on Dry-air-calcined HZSM-5
Zeolite. J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Transactions 1995, 91, 1689–1694.
[115] Lukyanov, D.B.; Shtral, V.I.; Khadzhiev, S.N. A Kinetic Model for the Hexane
Cracking Reaction over H-ZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 1994, 146, 87–92.
[116] Lombardo, E.; Pierantozzi, R.; Hall, W.K. The Mechanism of Neopentane
Cracking Over Solid Acids. Journal of Catalysis 1988, 110, 171–183.
[117] Kwak, B.S.; Haag, W.O.; Sachtler, W.H.M. Catalytic Conversion of Propane to Aro-
matics: Effects of adding Ga and/or Pt to HZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 1994, 149,
465–473.
[118] Gairbekov, T.M.; Khadzhiev, S.N.; Rossinskii, A.M. Cracking of Neopentane on
Ultrahigh Silica Zeolites. Kinetics and Catalysis 1989, 29, 1301–1302.
[119] Mole, T.; Anderson, J.R.; Creer, G. The Reaction of Propane over ZSM-5-H and
ZSM-5-Zn Zeolite Catalysts. Applied Catalysis 1985, 17, 141–154.
[120] le van Mao, R.; Yao, J. Kinetic Study of n-butane Aromatization on ZSM-5 and
Gallium Bearing ZSM-5 Catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 1991, 79, 77–87.
[121] Ono, Y.; Kunihiko, K. Transformation of Butanes over ZSM-5 Zeolites Part 1—
Mechanism of Cracking of Butanes over H-ZSM-5. J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans-
actions 1991, 87 (4), 663–667.
[122] Wang, X.; Carabineiro, H.; Lemos, F.; Lemos, M.; Ribeiro, F.R. Propane Conver-
sion over a H-ZSM5 Acid Catalyst Part 1. Observed kinetics. Journal of Molecular
Catalysis A: Chemical 2004, 216, 131–137.
[123] Yanping, S.; Brown, T.C. Kinetics of Isobutane Dehydrogenation and Cracking
over H-ZSM-5 at Low Pressure. Journal of Catalysis 2000, 194, 301–308.
[124] Jentoft, F.; Gates, B.C. Solid Acid Catalyzed Alkane Cracking Mechanisms:
Evidence from Reactions of Small Probe Molecules. Topics in Catalysis 1997, 4,
1–13.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
133
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[125] Kotrel, S.; Knozinger, H.; Gates, B.C. The Haag-Dessau Mechanism of Protolytic
Cracking of Alkanes. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 2000, 35–36,
11–20.
[126] Babitz, S.M.; Williams, B.A.; Miller, J.T.; Snurr, R.Q.; Haag, W.O.; Kung, H. Mono-
molecular Cracking of n-Hexane on Y, MOR, and ZSM-5 Zeolites. Applied Cataly-
sis A: General 1999, 179, 71–86.
[127] Kotrel, S.; Rosynek, M.P.; Lunsford, J.H. Intrinsic Catalytic Cracking Activity of
Hexane over H-ZSM-5, H-Beta, and H-Y Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103,
818–824.
[128] Kotrel, S.; Rosynek, M.P.; Lunsford, J.H. Quantiﬁcation of Acid Sites in H-ZSM-5,
H-Beta, and H-Y Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 1999, 182, 278–281.
[129] van Bokhoven, J.A.; Williams, B.A.; Ji, W.; Koningsberger, D.C.; Kung, H.H.;
Miller, J.T. Observation of a Compensation Relation for Monomolecular Alkane
Cracking By Zeolites: The Dominant Role of Reactant Sorprtion. Journal of Cat-
alysis 2004, 224, 50–59.
[130] Lercher, J.A.; Mirth, G.; Stockenhuber, M.; Narbeshuber, T.; Kogelbauer, A.
Elementary Steps of Acid-Base Catalyzed Reactions in Molecular Sieves.
Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis 1994, 90, 147–156.
[131] Lercher, J.A.; van Santen, R.A.; Vinek, H. Carbonium Ion Formation in Zeolite
Catalysis. Catalysis Letters 1994, 27, 91–96.
[132] Iglesia, E.; Baumgartner, J.E. Hydrogen Transfer and Activation of Propane and
Methane on ZSM-5 Based Catalysts. Catalysis Letters 1993, 21, 55–70.
[133] Biscardi, J.A.; Iglesia, E. Isotopic Tracer Studies of Propane Reactions on H-ZSM5
Zeolite. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102, 9284–9289.
[134] Yu, S.Y.; Biscardi, J.A.; Iglesia, E. Kinetic Relevance of Hydrogen Desorption
Steps and Virtual Pressures on Catalytic Surfaces during Reactions of Light
Alkanes. J. Phys. Chem. B 2002, 106, 9642–9648.
[135] Narbeshuber, T.F.; Stockenhuber, M.; Brait, A.; Seshan, K.; Lercher, J.A.
Hydrogen/Deuterium Exchange during n-Butane Conversion on HZSM-5.
Journal of Catalysis 1996, 160, 183–189.
[136] Narbeshuber, T.F.; Brait, A.; Seshan, K.; Lercher, J.A. Dehydrogenation of Light
Alkanes over Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 1997, 172, 127–136.
[137] Biscardi, J.A.; Iglesia, E. Structure and Function of Metal Cations in Light Alkane
Reactions Catalyzed by Modiﬁed H-ZSM-5. Catalysis Today 1996, 31, 207–231.
[138] Biscardi, J.A.; Meitzner, G.D.; Iglesia, E. Structure and Density of Active Zn
Species in Zn/HZSM-5 Propane Aromatization Catalysts. Journal of Catalysis
1998, 179, 192–202.
[139] Biscardi, J.A.; Iglesia, E. Reaction Pathways and Rate-Determining Steps in
Reactions of Alkanes on H-ZSM5 and Zn/H-ZSM5 Catalysts. Journal of Catalysis
1999, 182, 117–128.
[140] Farcasiu, D.; Lukinskas, P. Theoretical Calculation of the Interaction of
Hydrogen with Models of Coordinatively Unsaturated Centers on Alumina.
J. Phys. Chem. A 1999, 103, 8483–8490.
[141] Farcasiu, D.; Lukinskas, P. Mechanism and Reactivity of Alkane C-H Bond Dis-
sociation on Coordinatively Unsaturated Aluminum Ions, Determined by Theor-
etical Calculations. J. Phys. Chem. A 2002, 106, 1619–1626.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
134
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[142] Ivanova, I.I.; Pomakhina, E.B.; Rebrov, A.I.; Derouane, E.G. 13C MAS NMR
Mechanistic Study of the Initial Stages of Propane Activation over HZSM-5
Zeolite. Topics in Catalysis 1998, 6, 49–59.
[143] Ivanova, I.I.; Rebrov, A.I.; Pomakhina, E.B.; Derouane, E.G. 13C MAS NMR
Mechanistic Study of Propane Conversion into Butanes over H-MFI Catalyst.
Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 1999, 141, 107–116.
[144] Derouane, E.G.; Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Claerbout, A.P.; Seivert, M.; Ivanova, I.I.
Controlled-Atmosphere 13C MAS NMR Investigation of Propane and n-Hexane
Aromatisations. Science and Technology in Catalysis 1994, 92, 123–130.
[145] Luzgin, M.V.; Stepanov, A.G.; Arzumanov, S.S.; Rogov, V.A.; Parmon, V.N.;
Wang, W.; Hunger, M.; Freude, D. Mechanism Studies of the Conversion of
C-13-Labeled n-Butane on Zeolite H-ZSM-5 by Using C-13 Magic Angle
Spinning NMR Spectroscopy and GC-MS Analysis 2005, 12, 457–465.
[146] Stepanov, A.G.; Freude, H.D. In situ1H MAS NMR studies of the H/D exchange of
deuterated propane adsorbed on zeolite H-ZSM-5. Catalysis Letters 1998, 54,
1–4.
[147] Kramer, G.J.; van Santen, R.A.; Emeis, C.A.; Nowak, A.K. Understanding the
Acid behavior of Zeolites from Theory and Experiment. Nature 1993, 363,
529–531.
[148] Sauer, J. Catalysis Starting from First Principles. Nature 1993, 363, 493–494.
[149] Kazansky, V.B.; Senchenya, I.N.; Frash, M.V. A Quantum-Chemical Study of
Adsorbed Nonclassical Carbonium Ions as Active Intermediates in Catalytic
Transformations of Parafﬁns. I. Protolytic cracking of ethane on high silica
zeolites. Catalysis Letters 1994, 27, 345–354.
[150] Kazansky, V.B.; Frash, M.V.; van Santen, R.A. A Quantum-Chemical Study of
Adsorbed Nonclassical Carbonium Ions as Active Intermediates in Catalytic
Transformations of Parafﬁns. II. Protolytic Dehydrogenation and Hydrogen-
Deuterium Exchange of Parafﬁns on High-Silica Zeolites. Catalysis Letters
1994, 28, 211–222.
[151] Kazansky, V.B.; Frash, M.V.; van Santen, R.A. Quantum-Chemical Study of Non-
classical Carbonium Ion like Transition States in Isobutane Cracking on Zeolites.
Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis 1996, 101, 1233–1242.
[152] Collins, S.J.; O’Malley, P.J. A Theoretical Description for the Monomolecular
Cracking of C-C Bonds over Acidic Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 1995, 153,
94–99.
[153] Collins, S.J.; O’Malley, P.J. The Mechanism of Alkane Activation over Zeolite
Brønsted Acid Sites. A Density-Functional Study. Chemical Physics Letters
1995, 246, 555–561.
[154] Blaszkowski, S.R.; Jansen, A.P.J.; Nascimento, M.A.C.; van Santen, R.A. Density
Functional Theory Calculations of the Transition States for Hydrogen Exchange
and Dehydrogenation of Methane by a Brønsted Zeolitic Proton. J. Phys. Chem.
1994, 98, 12,938–12,944.
[155] Blaszkowski, S.R.; Nascimento, M.A.C.; van Santen, R.A. Activation of C-H and
C-C Bonds by an Acidic Zeolite: A Density Functional Study. J. Phys. Chem.
1996, 100, 3463–3472.
[156] Blaszkowski, S.R.; van Santen, R.A. Quantum Chemical Studies of Zeolite Proton
Catalyzed Reactions. Topics in Catalysis 1997, 4, 145–156.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
135
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[157] Esteves, P.M.; Nascimento, M.A.C.; Mota, C.J.A. Reactivity of Alkanes on
Zeolites: A Theoretical ab initio Study of the H/H Exchange. J. Phys. Chem. B
1999, 103, 10,417–10,420.
[158] Zheng, X.B.; Blowers, P. An ab initio Study of Ethane Conversion Reactions on
Zeolites using the Complete Basis Set Composite Energy Method. Journal of
Molecular Catalysis A: General 2005, 229, 77–85.
[159] Correa, R.J.; Mota, C.J.A. Theoretical Study of Protonation of Butene Isomers on
Acidic Zeolite: the Relative Stability Among Primary, Secondary and Tertiary
Alkoxy Intermediates. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2002, 4, 375–380.
[160] Zygmunt, S.A.; Curtiss, L.A.; Zapol, P.; Iton, L.E. Ab initio and Density Functional
Study of the Activation Barrier for Ethane Cracking. J. Phys. Chem. B 2000, 104,
1944–1949.
[161] Martinez-Magadan, J.M.; Cuan, A.; Castro, M. An Embedded QM/MM Study for
Different SiO2/Al2O3 Ratios of the HZSM-5 Zeolite and for their Interaction with
n-Heptane. International Journal of Quantum Chemistry 2002, 88, 750–766.
[162] Martinez-Magadan, J.M.; Mercaso, S.M.; Santamaria, R. The Catalytic Cracking
of Hydrocarbons: Parafﬁns in the HZSM-5 Zeolite. Chem. Phys. Chem. 2001, 11,
694–700.
[163] Spoto, G.; Bordiga, S.; Ricchiardi, G.; Scarano, D.; Zecchina, A.; Borello, E. IR
Study of Ethene and Propene Oligomerization on H-ZSM-5: Hydrogen-bonded
Precursor Formation, Initiation and Propagation Mechanisms and Structure of
the Entrapped Oligomers. J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Transactions 1994, 90,
2827–2835.
[164] Kondo, J.N.; Wakabayashi, K.F. A Novel Route of Double-Bond Migration of an
Oleﬁn without Protonated Species on ZSM-5 Zeolite. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997,
101, 5477–5479.
[165] Kondo, J.N.; Wakabayashi, F.; Domen, K. IR Study of Reaction of 2-Butene
Adsorbed on Deuterated ZSM-5 and Mordenite. Catalysis Letters 1998, 53,
215–220.
[166] Kondo, J.N.; Wakabayashi, F.; Domen, K. IR Study of Adsorption of Oleﬁns on
Deuterated ZSM-5. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102, 2259–2262.
[167] Yang, S.; Kondo, J.N.; Domen, K. Simultaneous Observation of Alkenyl Carbe-
nium Ions and Alkoxy Species on HZSM-5 Zeolite by Adsorption of 1-Methylcyclo-
pentene and 1-Methylcyclopentanol. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105, 7878–7881.
[168] Yang, S.; Kondo, J.N.; Domen, K. Formation of Alkenyl Carbenium Ions by
Adsorption of Cyclic Precursors on Zeolites. Catalysis Today 2002, 73, 113–125.
[169] Kondo, J.N.; Domen, K. IR Observation of Adsorption and Reaction of Oleﬁns on
H-Form Zeolites. Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 2003, 199, 27–38.
[170] Kiricsi, I.; Forster, H.; Tasi, G.; Nagy, J.B. Generation, Characterization, and
Transformations of Unsaturated Carbenium Ions in Zeolites. Chemical Reviews
1999, 99, 2085–2114.
[171] Viruela-Martin, P.; Zichovich-Wilson, C.M.; Corma, A. Ab initio Molecular Orbital
Calculations of the Protonation Reaction of Propylene and Isobutene by Acidic OH
Groups of Isomorphously Substituted Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. 1993, 97,
13,713–13,719.
[172] Evleth, E.M.; Kassab, E.; Jessri, H.; Allavena, M.; Montero, L.; Sierra, L.R.
Calculation of the Reaction of Ethylene, Propene, and Acetylene on Zeolite
Models. J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 11,368–11,374.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
136
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[173] Nicholas, J.B.; Xu, T.; Haw, J.F. NMR and Theoretical Studies of Solid Acids:
Super and Otherwise. Topics in Catalysis 1998, 6, 141–149.
[174] Rigby, A.M.; Frash, M.V. Ab initio Calculations on the Mechanisms of Hydro-
carbon Conversion in Zeolites: Skeletal Isomerization and Oleﬁn Chemisorption.
Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 1997, 126, 61–72.
[175] van Santen, R.A. Quantum-Chemistry of Zeolite Acidity. Catalysis Today 1997,
38, 377–390.
[176] Boronat, M.; Viruela, P.; Corma, A. Theoretical Study of the Mechanism of
Zeolite-Catalyzed Isomerization Reactions of Linear Butenes. J. Phys. Chem. A
1998, 102, 982–989.
[177] Limtrakul, J.; Nanok, T.; Jungsuttiwong, S.; Khongpracha, P.; Truong, T.N.
Adsorption of Unsaturated Hydrocarbons on Zeolites: the Effects of the Zeolite
Framework on Adsorption Properties of Ethylene. Chemical Physics Letters
2001, 349, 161–166.
[178] Rozanska, X.; Demuth, T.; Hutschka, F.; Hafner, J.; van Santen, R.A. A Periodic
Structure Density Functional Theory Study of Propylene Chemisorption in
Acidic Chabazite: Effect of Zeolite Structure Relaxation. J. Phys. Chem. B 2002,
106, 3248–3254.
[179] Benco, L.; Demuth, T.; Hutschka, F. Catalytic Conversion of Hydrocarbons Over
Zeolites from First Principles. Computational Materials Science 2003, 27, 87–95.
[180] Rozanska, X.; van Santen, R.A.; Demuth, T.; Hutschka, F.; Hafner, J. A Periodic
DFT Study of Isobutene Chemisorption in Proton-Exchanged Zeolites: Depen-
dence of Reactivity on the Zeolite Framework Structure. J. Phys. Chem. B
2003, 107, 1309–1315.
[181] van Bokhoven, J.A.; van der Eerdan, M.J.; Prins, R. Local Structure of the Zeolitic
Catalytically Active Site during Reaction. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126,
4506–4507.
[182] Pines, H. The Chemistry of Catalytic Hydrocarbon Conversions; Academic Press:
New York, 1981.
[183] Quann, R.J.; Green, L.A.; Tabek, S.A.; Krambeck, F.J. Chemistry of Oleﬁn Oligo-
merization over ZSM5 Catalyst. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1988, 27, 565–570.
[184] Abbot, J.; Wojciechowski, B.W. The Mechanism of Catalytic Cracking of n-alkenes
on ZSM-5 Zeolite. The Canadian Journal of Chemical Engineering 1985, 63,
462–469.
[185] Bessel, S.; Seddon, D. The Conversion of Ethene and Propene to Higher Hydrocar-
bons over ZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 1987, 105, 270–275.
[186] Weitkamp, J.; Jacobs, P.A.; Martens, J.A. Isomerization and Hydrocracking of C9
through C16 n-alkanes on Pt/HZSM-5 Zeolite. Applied Catalysis 1983, 8,
123–141.
[187] Buchanan, J.S.; Santiesteban, J.S.; Haag, W.O. Mechanistic Considerations in
Acid Catalyzed Cracking of Oleﬁns 1996, 158, 279–287.
[188] Frash, M.V.; van Santen, R.A. Quantum-Chemical Modeling of the Hydrocarbon
Transformations in Acid Zeolite Catalysts. Topics in Catalysis 1999, 9, 191–205.
[189] Frash, M.V.; Kazansky, V.B.; Rigby, A.M.; van Santen, R.A. Cracking of Hydrocar-
bons on Zeolite Catalysts: Density Functional and Hartree-Fock Calculations on
the Mechanism of the Beta-Scission Reaction. J. Phys. Chem. B 1998, 102,
2232–2238.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
137
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[190] Sie, ST. Acid-Catalyzed Cracking of Parafﬁnic Hydrocarbons. 1. Discussion of
Existing Mechanisms and Proposal of a New Mechanism. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.
1992, 31, 1881–1889.
[191] Sie, ST. Acid Catalyzed Cracking of Parafﬁnic Hydrocarbons. 2. Evidence for the
Protonated Cyclopropane Mechanism from Catalytic Cracking Experiments. Ind.
Eng. Chem. Res. 1993, 32, 397–402.
[192] Sie, S.T. Acid-Catalyzed Cracking of Parafﬁnic Hydrocarbons. 3. Evidence for the
Protonated Cyclopropane Mechanism from Hydrocracking/Hydroisomerization
Experiments. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1993, 32, 403–408.
[193] Hay, P.J.; Redondo, A.; Guo, Y. Theoretical Studies of Pentene Cracking on
Zeolites: C-C Beta-Scission Processes. Catalysis Today 1999, 50, 517–523.
[194] Svelle, S.; Kolboe, S.; Swang, O. Theoretical Investigation of the Dimerization of
Linear Alkenes Catalyzed by Acidic Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108,
2953–2962.
[195] Vos, A.M.; Schoonheydt, R.A.; De Proft, F.; Geerlings, P. Reactivity Descriptors
and Rate Constants for Acid Zeolite Catalyzed Ethylation and Isopropylation of
Benzene. J. Phys. Chem. B 2003, 107.
[196] Arstad, B.; Kolboe, S.; Swang, O. Theoretical Investigation of Arene Alkylation by
Ethene and Propene over Acidic Zeolites. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 2300–2308.
[197] Arstad, B.; Kolboe, S.; Swang, O. A Theoretical Investigation on the Methylation
of Methylbenzenes on Zeolites. Journal of Physical Chemistry B 2002, 106,
12,722–12,726.
[198] Frash, M.V.; Solkan, V.N.; Kazansky, V.B. A Quantum-Chemical Study of Hydride
Transfer from Alkanes to Carbenium Cations in the Gas Phase: A Comparison
with Liquid- and Solid-Acid Catalytic Systems. J. Chem. Soc. Faraday Trans-
actions 1997, 93, 515–520.
[199] Kazansky, V.B.; Frash, M.V.; van Santen, R.A. A Quantum-Chemical Study of
Hydride
Transfer
in
Catalytic
Transformations
of
Parafﬁns
on
Zeolites.
Pathways Through Adsorbed Nonclassical Carbonium Ions. Catalysis Letters
1997, 48, 61–67.
[200] Kazansky, V.B.; Frash, M.V.; van Santen, R.A. Quantum-Chemical Study of
Hydride Transfer in Catalytic Transformations of Parafﬁns on Zeolites. Studies
in Surface Science and Catalysis 1997, 105, 2283–2290.
[201] Kazansky, V.B.; Frash, M.V.; van Santen, R.A. Quantum Chemical Study of the
Isobutane Cracking on Zeolites. Applied Catalysis A: General 1996, 146,
225–247.
[202] Boronat, M.; Viruela, P.; Corma, A. A Theoretical Study of the Mechanism of the
Hydride Transfer Reaction between Alkanes and Alkenes Catalyzed by an Acidic
Zeolite. J. Phys. Chem. A 1998, 102, 9863–9868.
[203] Boronat, M.; Viruela, P.; Corma, A. Theoretical Study of Bimolecular Reactions
between Carbenium Ions and Parafﬁns: The Proposal of a Common Intermediate
for Hydride Transfer, Disproportionation, Dehydrogenation, and Alkylation.
J. Phys. Chem. B 1999, 103, 7809–7821.
[204] Boronat, M.; Viruela, P.; Corma, A. Ab initio and Density Functional Theory
Study of Zeolite-Catalyzed Hydrocarbon Reactions: Hydride Transfer, Alkylation
and Disproportionation. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2000, 2, 3327–3333.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
138
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[205] Oliver, F.G.; Munson, E.J.; Haw, J.F. High-Temperature in situ Magic Angle
Spinning NMR-Studies of Chemical-Reactions on Catalysts. Journal of Physical
Chemistry 1992, 96, 8106–8111.
[206] Xu, T.; Haw, J.F. Cyclopentenyl Carbenium Ion Formation in Acidic Zeolites: An
in situ NMR Study of Cyclic Precursors. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1994, 116, 7753–7759.
[207] Haw, J.F.; Nicholas, J.B.; Song, W.; Deng, F.; Wang, Z.; Xu, T.; Heneghan, C.S.
Roles for Cyclopentenyl Cations in the Synthesis of Hydrocarbons from
Methanol on Zeolite Catalyst in HZSM-5. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2000, 122,
4763–4775.
[208] Haw, J.F.; Song, W.G.; Marcus, D.M.; Nicholas, J.B. The Mechanism of Methanol
to Hydrocarbon Catalysis. Accounts of Chemical Research 2003, 36, 317–326.
[209] Joshi, Y.V.; Bhan, A.; Thomson, K.T. A DFT-Based Reaction Pathway Analysis of
Hexadiene Cyclization via Carbenium Ion Intermediates: Mechanistic Study of
Light Alkane Aromatization Catalysis. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 971–980.
[210] Viruela-Martin, P.M.; Nebot, I.; Viruela-Martin, R.; Planelles, J. A Proposal for a
Branching Mechanism in Medium-sized Cycloalkanes: MINDO/3 Study of the
Hypersurface for Isomerization of Cyclohexylium to 1-Methylcyclopentylium
Ion. J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. II 1986, 2, 49–53.
[211] Viruela-Martin, P.M.; Nebot-Gil, I.; Viruela-martin, R.; Planelles, J. MINDO/3
Study of the Isomerization of 1-Methylcyclohexylium Ion to 1-Ethylcyclopenty-
lium Ion. An Alternative Mechanism for this Branching Rearrangement.
J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. II 1987, 3, 307–311.
[212] Joshi, Y.V.; Thomson, K.T. Embedded Cluster (QM/MM) Investigation of C6
Diene Cyclization in HZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 2005, 230, 440–463.
[213] Joshi, Y.V.; Thomson, K.T. Personal communication (memo) July 2004.
[214] Bhan, A.; Hsu, S.-H.; Blau, G.; Caruthers, J.M.; Venkatasubramanian, V.;
Delgass, W.N. Microkinetic Modeling of Propane Aromatization on HZSM-5.
Journal of Catalysis 2005, 235, 35–51.
[215] Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. Dehydrocyclization of Alkanes over Zeolite-Sup-
ported Metal Catalysts: Monofunctional or Bifunctional Route. Catal. Rev.-Sci.
Eng. 1997, 39, 5–48.
[216] Kaeding, W.W.; Chu, C.; Young, L.B.; Butter, S.A. Shape-Selective Reactions with
Zeolite Catalysts. Journal of Catalysis 1981, 69, 392–398.
[217] Mavrodinova, V.; Minachev, C.; Penchev, V.; Lechert, H. Toluene Conversion on
the Zeolites Offretite Omega ZSM-5. Zeolites 1985, 5, 217–221.
[218] Nayak, V.S.; Riekert, L. Catalytic Activity and Product Distribution in the Dispro-
portionation of Toluene on Different Preparations of Pentasil Zeolite Catalysts.
Applied Catalysis 1986, 23, 403–411.
[219] Beltrame, P.; Beltrame, P.L.; Carniti, P.; Zuretti, G.; Leofanti, G.; Moretti, E.;
Padovan, M. Comparison of Different Samples of HZSM-5 as Catalysts for
Toluene Disproportionation. Zeolites 1987, 7, 418–422.
[220] Bhaskar, G.V.; Do, D.D. Toluene Disproportionation Reaction over HZSM-5
Zeolites: Kinetics and Mechanism. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1990, 29, 355–361.
[221] Das, J.; Bhat, Y.S.; Halferi, A.B. Selective Toluene Disproportionation over Pore
Size Controlled MFI Zeolite. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1994, 33, 246–250.
[222] Xiong, Y.; Rodewald, P.G.; Chang, C.D. On the Mechanism of Toluene Dispropor-
tionation in a Zeolite Environment. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1995, 117, 9427–9431.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
139
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[223] Kunieda, T.; Kim, J.-H.; Niwa, M. Source of Selectivity of p-Xylene Formation in
the Toluene Disproportionation over HZSM-5 Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 1999,
188, 431–433.
[224] Tsai, T.C.; Liu, S.B.; Wang, I.K. Disproportionation and Transalkylation of Alky-
benzenes over Zeolite Catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 1999, 181,
355–398.
[225] Chen, N.Y. Personal Perspective of the Development of Para Selective ZSM-5 Cat-
alysts. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2001, 40, 4157–461.
[226] Cejka, J.; Wichterlova, B. Acid-Catalyzed Synthesis of Mono- and Dialkyl
Benzenes over Zeolites: Actives Sites, Zeolite Topology, and Reaction Mechanisms.
Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 2002, 44, 375–421.
[227] Zheng, S.; Heydenrych, H.R.; Roger, H.P.; Jentys, A.; Lercher, J.A. On the
Enhanced Selectivity of HZSM-5 Modiﬁed by Chemical Liquid Deposition.
Topics in Catalysis 2003, 22, 101–106.
[228] Rozanska, X.; Saintigny, X.; van Santen, R.A.; Hutschka, F. A DFT study of Iso-
merization and Transalkylation Reactions of Aromatic Species Catalyzed by
Acidic Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 2001, 202, 141–155.
[229] Rozanska, X.; van Santen, R.A.; Hutschka, F. A Periodic Density Functional
Theory Study of Intermolecular Isomerization of Toluene and Benzene Catalyzed
by Acidic Modernite Zeolite: Effect of the Zeolite Steric Constraints. J. Phys.
Chem. B 2002, 106, 4652–4657.
[230] Haw, J.F.; Goguen, P.W.; Xu, T.; Skloss, T.W.; Song, W.; Wang, Z. In Situ NMR
Investigations of Heterogeneous Catalysis
with Samples
Prepared under
Standard Reaction Conditions. Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. Engl. 1998, 37, 948–949.
[231] Goguen,
P.W.;
Xu,
T.;
Barich,
D.H.;
Skloss,
T.W.;
Song,
W.;
Wang,
Z.;
Nicholas, J.B.; Haw, J.F. Pulse-Quench Catalytic Reactor Studies Reveal a
Carbon-Pool Mechanism in Methanol-to-Gasoline Chemistry on Zeolite HZSM-
5. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 2650–2651.
[232] Ivanova, I.I.; Corma, A. Surface Species Formed and Their Reactivity during the
Alkylation of Toluene by Methanol and Dimethyl Ether on Zeolites as Determined
by in situ13C MAS NMR. J. Phys. Chem. B 1997, 101, 547–551.
[233] Vos, A.M.; Rozanska, X.; Schoonheydt, R.A.; van Santen, R.A.; Hutschka, F.;
Hafner, J. A Theoretical Study of the Alkylation Reaction of Toluene with
Methanol Catalyzed by Acidic Mordenite. Journal of the American Chemical
Society 2001, 123, 2799–2809.
[234] Corma, A.; Wojciechowski, B.W. The Chemistry of Catalytic Cracking. Catal.
Rev. -Sci. Eng. 1985, 27, 29–150.
[235] Quann, R.J.; Jaffe, S.B. Structure Oriented Lumping: Describing the Chemistry
of Complex Hydrocarbon Mixtures. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1992, 31, 2483–2497.
[236] Quann, R.J.; Jaffe, S.B. Building Useful Models of Complex Reaction Systems in
Petroleum Reﬁning. Chemical Engineering Science 1996, 51, 1615–1631.
[237] Christensen, G.; Apelian, M.R.; Hickey, K.J.; Jaffe, S.B. Future Directions in Mod-
elling the Process, F.C.C.: An Emphasis on Product Quality. Chemical Engineer-
ing Science 1999, 54, 2753–2764.
[238] Ghosh, P.; Hickey, K.J.; Jaffe, S.B. Development of a Detailed Gasoline Compo-
sition-Based Octane Model. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2006, 45, 337–345.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
140
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[239] Abbot, J.; Wojciechowski, B.W. Kinetics of Catalytic Cracking of n-Parafﬁns on
HY Zeolite. Journal of Catalysis 1987, 104, 80–85.
[240] Abbot, J.; Wojciechowski, B.W. Catalytic Reactions of Branched Parafﬁns on HY
zeolite. Journal of Catalysis 1988, 113, 353–366.
[241] Abbot, J.; Wojciechowski, B.W. The Mechanism of Parafﬁn reactions on HY
Zeolite. Journal of Catalysis 1989, 115, 1–15.
[242] Groten, W.A.; Wojciechowski, B.W. The Kinetics of Hydrocarbon Cracking.
Journal of Catalysis 1993, 140, 262–280.
[243] Zhao, Y.X.; Bamwenda, G.R.; Wojciechowski, B.W. Cracking Selectivity Patterns
in the Presence of Chain Mechanisms. The Cracking of 2-Methylpentane. Journal
of Catalysis 1993, 142, 465–489.
[244] Zhao, Y.X.; Wojciechowski, B.W. Effect of Dilution on 2-Methylpentane Cracking
over HY Zeolite. Journal of Catalysis 1993, 142, 499–511.
[245] Zhao, Y.X.; Bamwenda, G.R.; Groten, W.A.; Wojciechowski, B.W. The Chain Mech-
anism in Catalytic Cracking: The Kinetics of 2-Methylpentane Cracking. Journal
of Catalysis 1993, 140, 243–261.
[246] Wojciechowski, B.W.; Bassir, M.M. The Cracking of Isobutane Interpreted as a
Chain Mechanism. Journal of Catalysis 1994, 147, 352–354.
[247] Zhao, Y.X.; Bamwenda, G.R.; Wojciechowski, B.W. Comparison of the Kinetics
and Mechanism of 3-Methylpentane and 2-Methylpentane Cracking on USHY.
Journal of Catalysis 1994, 146, 594–597.
[248] Wojciechowski, B.W. Dichotomies in Catalytic Cracking. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.
1997, 36, 3323–3335.
[249] Corma, A.; Miguel, P.J.; Orchilles, A.V. The Role of Reaction Temperature and
Cracking Catalyst Characteristics in Determining the Relative Rates of Protolytic
Cracking, Chain Propagation, and Hydrogen Transfer. Journal of Catalysis 1994,
145, 171–180.
[250] Corma, A.; Miguel, P.J.; Orchilles, A.V. Product Selectivity Effects During
Cracking of Alkanes at Very Short and Longer Times on Stream. Applied Cataly-
sis A: General 1996, 138, 57–73.
[251] Feng, W.; Vynckier, E.; Froment, G.F. Single-Event Kinetics of Catalytic
Cracking. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1993, 32, 2997–3005.
[252] Martens, G.; Froment, G.F. Kinetic Modeling of Parafﬁns Hydrocracking based
upon Elementary Steps and the Single Event Concept. Studies in Surface
Science and Catalysis 1999, 122, 333–340.
[253] Froment, G.F. Kinetic Modeling of Acid-Catalyzed Oil Reﬁning Processes. Cataly-
sis Today 1999, 52, 153–163.
[254] Dumesic, J.A.; Rudd, D.F.; Aparicio, L.M.; Rekoske, J.E.; Trevino, A.A. The Micro-
kinetics of Heterogeneous Catalysis; American Chemical Society: Washington DC,
1993.
[255] Stoltze, P. Microkinetic Simulation of Catalytic Reactions. Progress in Surface
Science 2000, 65, 65–150.
[256] Yaluris, G.; Rekoske, J.E.; Aparicio, L.M.; Madon, R.J.; Dumesic, J.A. Isobutane
Cracking over Y-Zeolites I. Development of a Kinetic Model. Journal of Catalysis
1995, 153, 54–64.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
141
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[257] Yaluris, G.; Rekoske, J.E.; Aparicio, L.M.; Madon, R.J.; Dumesic, J.A. Isobutane
Cracking over Y-Zeolites II. Catalytic Cycles and Reaction Selectivity. Journal
of Catalysis 1995, 153, 65–75.
[258] Sanchez-Castillo, M.A.; Agarwal, N.; Miller, C.; Cortright, R.D.; Madon, R.J.;
Dumesic, J.A. Reaction Kinetic Studies and Analysis of Reaction Schemes for Iso-
butane Conversion over USY Zeolite. Journal of Catalysis 2002, 67–85.
[259] Sanchez-Castillo, M.A.; Agarwal, N.; Bartsch, A.; Cortright, R.D.; Madon, R.J.;
Dumesic, J.A. Reaction Kinetics Studies and Analyses of Isobutane Conversion
over H-Mordenite And Beta-Zeolite. Journal of Catalysis 2003, 218, 88–103.
[260] Agarwal, N.; Sanchez-Castillo, M.A.; Cortright, R.D.; Madon, R.J.; Dumesic, J.A.
Catalytic Cracking of Isobutane and 2-Methylhexane over USY Zeolite: Identiﬁ-
cation of Kinetically Signiﬁcant Reaction Steps. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 2002, 41,
4016–4027.
[261] Benson, S.W. Thermochemical Kinetics; Wiley: New York, 1968.
[262] Kotrel, S.; Lunsford, J.H.; Knozinger, H. Characterizing Zeolite Acidity by Spec-
troscopic and Catalytic Means: A Comparison. J. Phys. Chem. B 2001, 105,
3917–3921.
[263] Williams, B.A.; Ji, W.; Miller, J.T.; Snurr, R.Q.; Kung, H.H. Evidence of Different
Reaction Mechanisms During the Cracking of n-Hexane on H-USY Zeolite.
Applied Catalysis A: General 2000, 203, 179–190.
[264] Campbell, C.T. Micro-and Macro-Kinetics: Their Relationship in Heterogeneous
Catalysis. Topics in Catalysis 1994, 1, 353–366.
[265] Dumesic, J.A. Analyses of Reaction Schemes Using De Donder Relations. Journal
of Catalysis 1999, 185, 496–505.
[266] Campbell, C.T. Finding the Rate-Determining Step in a Mechanism. Journal of
Catalysis 2001, 204, 520–524.
[267] Dumesic, J.A. Reply to Finding the Rate-Determining Step in a Mechanism:
Comparing DeDonder Relations with the “Degree of Rate Control”. Journal of
Catalysis 2001, 204, 525–529.
[268] Cortright, R.D.; Dumesic, J.A. Kinetics of Heterogeneous Catalytic Reactions:
Analysis of Reaction Schemes. Advances in Catalysis 2001, 46, 161–264.
[269] Watson, B.A.; Klein, M.T.; Harding, R.H. Mechanistic Modeling of n-Heptane
Cracking on HZSM-5. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1996, 35, 1506–1516.
[270] Lukyanov, D.B.; Shtral, V.I. Use of a Kinetic Model for Investigation of Light
Oleﬁn Aromatization Reactions over HZSM-5 Zeolites. Preprints of Symposium
on Alkylation, Aromatizatin, Oligomerization, and Isomerization of Short-Chain
Hydrocarbon over Heterogeneous Catalysts 1991, 36, 693.
[271] Lukyanov, D.B.; Gnep, N.S.; Guisnet, M.S. Kinetic Modeling of Ethene and
Propene Aromatization over HZSM5 and GaHZSM5. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res.
1994, 33, 223–234.
[272] Lukyanov, D.B. Reactivity of Propene, n-Butene, and Isobutene in the Hydrogen
Transfer Steps of n-Hexane Cracking over Zeolites of Different Structure. Journal
of Catalysis 1994, 147, 494–499.
[273] Lukyanov, D.B. A Test method for Quantitative Characterization of Zeolite
Hydrogen Transfer Activity. Journal of Catalysis 1994, 145, 54–57.
[274] Lukyanov, D.B.; Gnep, N.S.; Guisnet, M.S. Kinetic Modeling of Propane Aromati-
zation over HZSM5 and GaHZSM5. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1995, 34, 516–523.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
142
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[275] Lukyanov, D.B. Application of a kinetic model for investigation of aromatization
reactions of light parafﬁns and oleﬁns over HZSM-5. Studies in Surface Science
and Catalysis 1997, 105, 1301–1308.
[276] Guisnet, M.S.; Lukyanov, D.B. Aromatization of short chain alkanes on Ga MFI
catalysts. Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis 1994, 90, 367–378.
[277] Lukyanov, D.B. Development of Kinetic Models for Reactions of Light Hydrocar-
bons over ZSM-5 Catalysts. Experimental Studies and Kinetic Modeling of
Ethene Transformation and Deactivation of HZSM-5 Catalyst. Studies in
Surface Science and Catalysis 1999, 122, 299–306.
[278] Nguyen, L.H.; Vazhnova, T.; Kolaczkowski, S.T.; Lukyanov, D.B. Combined
Experimental and Kinetic Modelling Studies of the Pathways of Propane and
n-Butane Aromatization over H-ZSM-5 Catalyst. Chemical Engineering Science
2006, 61, 5881–5894.
[279] Caruthers, J.M.; Lauterbach, J.A.; Thomson, K.T.; Venkatasubramanian, V.;
Snively, C.M.; Bhan, A.; Katare, S.; Oskarsdottir, G. Catalyst Design: Knowledge
Extraction from High-Throughput Experimentation. Journal of Catalysis 2003,
216, 98–109.
[280] Katare, S.; Bhan, A.; Caruthers, J.M.; Delgass, W.N.; Venkatasubramanian, V. A
Hybrid Genetic Algorithm for Efﬁcient Parameter Estimation of Large Scale
Reaction Networks. Computers and Chemical Engineering 2004, 28, 2569–2581.
[281] Montgomery, D.C.; Runger, G.C. Applied Statistics and Probability for Engineers;
Wiley Text Books: New York, 2002.
[282] Corma, A.; Miguel, P.J.; Orchilles, A.V. On the Limitations To Establish the Con-
tribution of the Different Reaction Mechanisms from Selectivity Data, During
Cracking of Long-Chain Linear Parafﬁns. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1997, 36,
3400–3415.
[283] Yakerson, V.I.; Vasina, T.V.; Lafer, L.I.; Sytnyk, V.P.; Dykh, G.L.; Mokhov, A.V.;
Bragin, O.V.; Minachev, K.M. The Properties of Zinc and Gallium Containing Pen-
tasils - The Catalysts for the Aromatization of Lower Alkanes. Catalysis Letters
1989, 3, 339–346.
[284] Nowak, I.; Quartararo, J.; Derouane, E.G.; Vedrine, J.C. Effects of Reducing and
Oxidising Pre-Treatments on the State of Gallium in Ga/H-ZSM-5 Propane
Aromatisation Catalysts. Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis 2002, 145,
201–204.
[285] Joly, J.F.; Ajot, H.; Raatz, M.F.; Alario, F. Parameters Affecting the Dispersion of
the Gallium Phase of Gallium H-MFI Aromatization Catalysts. Applied Catalysis
A: General 1991, 79, 249–263.
[286] Dooley, K.M.; Chang, C.; Price, G.L. Effects of pretreatments on state of gallium
and aromatization activity of gallium/ZSM-5 catalysts. Applied Catalysis A:
General 1992, 84, 17–30.
[287] Kanazirev, V.; Price, G.L.; Dooley, K.M. Enhancement in Propane Aromatization
with Ga2O3/HZSM-5 Catalysts. J. Chem. Soc., Chem. Commun. 1990, 712–713.
[288] le van Mao, R.; Yao, J.; Sjiariel, B. Aromatization of n-Butane Over New LD-HBS
Catalysts. Effect of the Gallium Oxide Support. Catalysis Letters 1990, 6, 23–32.
[289] Yao, J.; Le van Mao, R.; Dufresne, L. Conversion of n-butane into BTX aromatics
on new hybrid catalysts. Applied Catalysis 1990, 65, 175–88.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
143
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[290] Gnep, N.S.; Doyemet, J.Y.; Guisnet, M. Conversion of Light Alkanes into Aromatic
Hydrocarbons. 3. Aromatization of Propane and Propene on Mixtures of HZSM5
and Ga2O3. Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis 1989, 46, 153–162.
[291] Kucherov, A.V.; Slinkin, A.A. Introduction of the Transition Metal to Ions in
Cationic Positions of High-Silica Zeolites by a Solid State Reaction. Interaction
of Copper Compounds with H-Mordenite or HZSM-5. Zeolites 1986, 6, 175–180.
[292] le van Mao, R.; Yao, J.; Dufresne, L.A.; Carli, R. Hybrid Catalysts Containing
Zeolite ZSM-5 and Supported Gallium Oxide in the Aromatization of n-Butane.
Catalysis Today 1996, 31, 247–255.
[293] Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. Comments on: Evidence for Reversible Formation of
a Catalytic Active Site for Propane Aromatization for Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5. Catalysis
Letters 1995, 32, 235–236.
[294] Carli, R.; Bianchi, C.L.; Giannantonio, R.; Ragaini, V. Low Temperature
Reduction of Gallium in a Ga2O3/HZSM-5 Catalyst. Journal of Molecular Cataly-
sis 1993, 83, 379–389.
[295] Buckles, G.J.; Hutchings, G.J. Conversion of Propane using H-ZSM-5 and Ga/H-
ZSM-5 in the Presence of co-fed Nitric Oxide, Oxygen and Hydrogen. Journal of
Catalysis 1995, 151, 33–43.
[296] Buckles, G.J.; Hutchings, G.J. Aromatisation of Propane over Ga/HZSM-5:
Comments on the Activation of Propane. Catalysis Today 1996, 31, 233–246.
[297] Carli, R.; Ragaini, V. Catalytic Activity of a Mechanically Mixed Ga2O3/H-MFI
Catalyst under Distance Preservative Conditions. Catalysis Today 1996, 31,
257–264.
[298] Dooley, K.M.; Price, G.L.; Kanazirev, V.I.; Hart, V.I. Gallium-Loaded Zeolites for
Light Parafﬁn Aromatization: Evidence for Exchanged Gallium Cation Active
Centers. Catalysis Today 1996, 31, 305–315.
[299] Kwak, B.S.; Sachtler, W.H.M. Characterization and Testing of Ga/HZSM-5
Prepared by Sublimation of GaCl3 into HZSM-5. Journal of Catalysis 1993, 141,
729–732.
[300] Garcia-Sanchez,
M.;
Magusin,
P.C.M.M.;
Hensen,
E.J.M.;
Thune,
P.C.;
Rozanska, X.; van Santen, R.A. Characterization of Ga/HZSM-5 and Ga/
HMOR
Synthesized
by
Chemical
Vapor
Deposition
of
Trimethylgallium.
Journal of Catalysis 2003, 219, 352–361.
[301] Inui, T.; Makino, Y.; Okazumi, F.; Nagano, S.; Miyamoto, A. Selective Aromatiza-
tion of Light Parafﬁns on Platinum-ion-Exchanged Gallium-Silicate Bifunctional
Catalysts. Ind. Eng. Chem. Res. 1987, 26, 647–652.
[302] Kitagawa, H.; Sendoda, Y.; Ono, Y. Transformation of Propane into Aromatic
Hydrocarbons over ZSM5 Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 1986, 101, 12–18.
[303] Price, G.L.; Kanazirev, V. Ga2O3/HZSM-5 Propane Aromatization Catalysts: For-
mation of Active Centers via Solid-State Reaction. Journal of Catalysis 1990, 126,
267–278.
[304] Kanazirev, V.; Mavrodinova, V.; Kosova, L.; Price, G.L. Conversion of C8
Aromatics and n-Pentane over Ga2O3/HZSM-5 Mechanically Mixed Catalysts.
Catalysis Letters 1991, 9, 35–42.
[305] Kanazirev, V.; Piffer, R.; Forster, H. FTIR Spectroscopic Evidence for a Key Role of
Hydrogen in Creating an Active State of Ga2O3/HZSM-5 Mixed Catalysts.
Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1991, 69, L15–L18.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
144
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[306] Kanazirev, V.; Dimitrova, R.; Price, G.L.; Khodakov, A.Y.; Kustov, L.M.;
Kazansky, V.B. IR Study of the Active Sites Formed by H2 Treatment of Ga/
HZSM-5 Catalysts. Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1991, 70, 111–117.
[307] Stakheev, A.Y.; Khodakov, A.Y.; Kustov, L.M.; Kazansky, V.B.; Minachev, K.M.
Localization of Polyvalent Cations in Pentasil Catalysts Modiﬁed by Metal
Oxides. Zeolites 1992, 12, 866–869.
[308] Jia, S.; Wu, S.; Meng, Z. Study of the Active Center of Ga2O3/HZSM-5 catalyst.
Applied Catalysis A: General 1993, 103, 259–268.
[309] Giannetto, G.; Leon, G.; Papa, J.; Monque, R.; Galiasso, R.; Gabelica, Z.
Preparation of Acidic or Bifunctional Catalysts by Means of Straightforward Cal-
cination of as-Synthesized [Ga]-ZSM-5 Zeolites Obtained from Alkali-Free
Media—Propane Aromatization. Catalysis Letters 1993, 22, 381–386.
[310] Dooley, K.M.; Chang, C.; Kanazirev, V.; Price, G.L. Pretreatment Effects on Active
State and Aromatization Activity of Ga/ZSM-5 Catalysts. Studies in Surface
Science and Catalysis 1993, 75, 2415–2418.
[311] Meitzner, G.D.; Iglesia, E.; Baumgartner, J.E.; Huang, E.S. The Chemical State of
Gallium in Working Alkane Dehydrocyclodimerization Catalysts. In Situ Gallium
K-Edge X-ray Absorption Spectroscopy. Journal of Catalysis 1993, 140, 209–225.
[312] Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Derouane, E.G.; Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C.; Yarmo, M.A.
Effect of Temperature on Propane Aromatisation over Ga/H-MFI (Si, Al) Cata-
lysts. Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis 1994, 84, 2335–2344.
[313] Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Derouane, E.G.; Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. Ageing of Ga/
H-MFI (Si,Al) Propane Aromatisation Catalysts. Studies in Surface Science and
Catalysis 1994, 88, 183–190.
[314] Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Derouane, E.G.; Demortier, G.; Riga, J.; Yarmo, M.A. State,
Activation, and Migration of Gallium in Ga/H-MFI (Si,Al) Propane Aromatization
Catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 1994, 108, 85–96.
[315] Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Derouane, E.G.; Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. Effect of Reduc-
tive and Oxidative Atmospheres on the Propane Aromatisation Activity and
Selectivity of Ga/H-ZSM-5 catalysts. Catalysis Today 1996, 31, 327–334.
[316] Derouane, E.G.; Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Ivanova, I.I.; Blom, N.; Nielsen, P.E.-H. Ther-
modynamic and Mechanistic Studies of the Initial Stages in Propane Aromatiza-
tion over Ga-modiﬁed H-ZSM-5 Catalysts. Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1994,
86, 371–400.
[317] Dooley, K.M.; Guidry, T.F.; Price, G.L. Control of Intrazeolitic Gallium Cation
Content and its Effects on C2 Dehydrogenation in Ga-MFI Catalysts. Journal of
Catalysis 1995, 157, 66–75.
[318] Buckles, G.; Hutchings, G.J.; Williams, C.D. Aromatization of Propane over
Ga/HZSM-5: An Explanation of the Synergy Observed between Ga3þ and Hþ.
Catalysis Letters 1991, 11, 89–94.
[319] Buckles, G.; Hutchings, G.J. Evidence for the Reversible Formation of a Catalytic
Active Site for Propane Aromatization over Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5. Catalysis Letters
1994, 27, 361–367.
[320] Buckles, G.J.; Hutchings, G.J. Comments on: Evidence for the Reversible
Formation of a Catalytically Active Site for Propane Aromatization for Ga2O3/
H-ZSM-5 A Response. Catalysis Letters 1995, 32, 237–239.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
145
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[321] Garcia-Sanchez, M.; Magusin, P.; Hensen, E.J.M.; van Santen, R.A. H2-D2
Exchange and Migration of Ga in H-ZSM5 and H-MOR Zeolites. Studies in
Surface Science and Catalysis 2002, 142, 959–966.
[322] El-Malki, E.-M.; van Santen, R.A.; Sachtler, W.H.M. Introduction of Zn, Ga, and
Fe into HZSM-5 Cavities by Sublimation: Identiﬁcation of Acid Sites. J. Phys.
Chem. B 1999, 103, 4611–4622.
[323] Choudhary, V.R.; Kinage, A.K.; Sivadinarayana, C.; Guisnet, M. Inﬂuence of O2
and H2 Pretreatments on Acidity/Acid Strength Distribution and Acid Functions
of Ga/H-ZSM-5, H-GaMFI and H-GaAlMFI Zeolites. Proc. Indian Acad. Sci.
(Chem. Sci.), 1996, 108, 89–100.
[324] Choudhary, V.R.; Kinage, A.K.; Sivadinarayana, C.; Guisnet, M. Pulse Reaction
Studies on Variations of Initial Activity/Selectivity of O2 and H2 Pretreated
Ga-Modiﬁed ZSM-5 Type Zeolite Catalysts in Propane Aromatization. Journal
of Catalysis 1996, 158, 23–33.
[325] Choudhary, V.R.; Kinage, A.K.; Choudhary, T.V. Direct Aromatization of Natural
Gas over H-gallosilicate (MFI), H-galloaluminosilicate (MFI) and Ga/HZSM-5
Zeolites. Applied Catalysis A: General 1997, 162, 239–248.
[326] Brabec, L.; Jeschke, M.; Klik, R.; Novakova, J.; Kubelkova, L.; Freude, D.;
Bosacek, V.; Meusinger, J. Various Types of Ga in MFI metallosilicates: Character-
ization and Catalytic Activity. Applied Catalysis A: General 1998, 167, 309–320.
[327] Hagen, A.; Schneider, E.; Kleinert, A.; Roessner, F. Modiﬁcation of Acid Supports
by Solid-State Redox Reaction Part I. Preparation and Characterization. Journal
of Catalysis 2004, 222, 227–237.
[328] Chang, C.-S.; Lee, M.-D. Effect of Hydrogen Pretreatment on Catalytic Properties
of Ga/ZSM-5 Catalyst. Reaction Kinetics and Catalysis Letters 1995, 54,
115–120.
[329] Kazansky, V.B.; Subbotina, I.R.; van Santen, R.A.; Hensen, E.J.M. DRIFTS Study
of the Chemical State of Modifying Gallium Ions in Reduced Ga/ZSM-5 Prepared
by Impregnation I. Observation of Gallium Hydrides and Application of CO
Adsorption as a Molecular Probe for Reduced Gallium Ions. Journal of Catalysis
2004, 227, 263–269.
[330] Kazansky, V.B.; Subbotina, I.R.; Rane, N.; van Santen, R.A.; Hensen, E.J.M. On
Two Alternative Mechanisms of Ethane Activation over ZSM-5 Zeolite Modiﬁed
by Zn2þ and Ga1þ Cations. Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys. 2005, 7, 3088–3092.
[331] Hensen, E.J.M.; Garcia-Sanchez, M.; Rane, N.; Magusin, P.; Liu, P.H.; Chao, K.J.;
van Santen, R.A. In situ GaK Edge XANES Study of the Activation of Ga/ZSM-5
Prepared by Chemical Vapor Deposition of Trimethylgallium. Catalysis Letters
2005, 101, 79–85.
[332] Rane, N.; Overweg, A.R.; Kazansky, V.B.; van Santen, R.A.; Hensen, E.J.M.
Characterization and Reactivity of Gaþ and GaOþ Cations in Zeolite ZSM-5.
Journal of Catalysis 2006, 239, 478–485.
[333] Frash, M.V.; van Santen, R.A. Activation of Small Alkanes in Ga-Exchanged
Zeolites: A Quantum Chemical Study of Ethane Dehydrogenation. J. Phys.
Chem. A 2000, 104, 2468–2475.
[334] Joshi, Y.V.; Thomson, K.T. The Roles of Gallium Hydride and Bronsted Acidity in
Light Alkane Dehydrogenation Mechanisms using Ga-exchanged HZSM-5 Cata-
lysts: A DFT Pathway Analysis. Catalysis Today 2005, 105, 106–121.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
146
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[335] Joshi, Y.V.; Thomson, K.T. High Ethane Dehydrogenation Activity of [GaH]2þ-Al
Pair Sites in Ga/H-[Al]ZSM-5: A DFT Thermochemical Analysis. Journal of
Catalysis 2007, 246, 249–265.
[336] Pidko, E.A.; Kazansky, V.B.; Hensen, E.J.M.; van Santen, R.A. A Comprehensive
Density Functional Theory Study of Ethane Dehydrogenation over Reduced
Extra-Framework Gallium Species in ZSM-5 Zeolite. Journal of Catalysis 2006,
240, 73–84.
[337] Kanai, J.; Kawata, N. Aromatization of n-Hexane over Galloaluminosilicate and
Gallosilicate. Applied Catalysis 1989, 55, 115–122.
[338] Khodakov, A.Y.; Kustov, L.M.; Bondarenko, T.N.; Dergachev, A.A.; Kazansky, V.B.;
Minachev, K.M.; Borbely, G.; Beyer, H.K. Investigation of the Different States of
Gallium in Crystalline Gallosilicates with Pentasil Structure and their Role in
Propane Aromatization. Zeolites 1990, 10, 603–607.
[339] Bayense, C.R.; van der Pol, A.J.H.P.; van Hooff, J.H.C. Aromatization of Propane
over MFI-Gallosilicates. Applied Catalysis 1991, 72, 81–98.
[340] Giannetto, G.; Montes, A.; Gnep, N.S.; Florentino, A.; Cartaud, P.; Guisnet, M.S.
Conversion of Light Alkanes into Aromatic Hydrocarbons VII. Aromatization of
Propane on Gallosilicates: Effect of Calcination in Dry Air. Journal of Catalysis
1994, 145, 86–95.
[341] Choudhary, V.R.; Mantri, K.; Sivadinarayana, C. Inﬂuence of Zeolite Factors
Affecting Zeolitic Acidity on the Propane Aromatization Activity and Selectivity
of Ga/H-ZSM-5. Microporous and Mesoporous Materials 2000, 37, 1–8.
[342] Choudhary, V.R.; Devadas, P.; Banerjee, S.; Kinage, A. Aromatization of Dilute
Ethylene over Ga-Modiﬁed ZSM-5 Type Zeolite Catalysts. Microporous and Meso-
porous Materials 2001, 47, 253–267.
[343] Choudhary, V.R.; Panjala, D.; Banerjee, S. Aromatization of Propene and
n-Butene over H-Galloaluminosilicate (ZSM-5 type) Zeolite. Applied Catalysis
A: General 2002, 231, 243–251.
[344] Choudhary, V.R.; Mulla, S.A.R.; Banerjee, S. Aromatization of n-Heptane over
H-AlMFI, Ga/H-AlMFI, H-GaMFI and H-GaAlMFI Zeolite Catalysts: Inﬂuence
of Zeolitic Acidity and Non-Framework Gallium. Microporous and Mesoporous
Materials 2003, 57, 317–3122.
[345] Choudhary, V.R.; Kinage, A.K.; Choudhary, T.V. Low-Temperature Nonoxidative
Activation of Methane over H-Galloaluminosilicate (MFI) Zeolite. Science 1997,
275, 1286–1288.
[346] Montes, A.; Giannetto, G. A New Way to Obtain Acid or Bifunctional Catalysts V.
Considerations on Bifunctionality of the Propane Aromatization Reaction over
[Ga, Al]-ZSM-5 Catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 2000, 197, 31–39.
[347] Kwak, B.S.; Sachtler, W.H.M. Effect of Ga/Proton Balance in Ga/HZSM-5 Cata-
lysts on C3 Conversion to Aromatics. Journal of Catalysis 1994, 145, 456–463.
[348] Ono, Y.; Osako, K.; Yamawaki, M.; Nakashiro, K. Mechanism of the Activation of
Butanes and Pentanes over ZSM-5 Zeolites. Studies in Surface Science and Cat-
alysis 1994, 84, 187–194.
[349] Schulz, P.; Baerns, M. Aromatization of Ethane over Gallium-Promoted H-ZSM-5.
Applied Catalysis 1991, 78, 15–29.
[350] Meriaudeau, P.; Primet, M. FTIR Study of Hydrogen Adsorption on alpha-Ga2O3.
Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1990, 61, 227–234.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
147
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[351] Gnep, N.S.; Doyemet, J.Y.; Seco, A.M.; Riberio, F.R.; Guisnet, M.S. Conversion of
Light Alkanes to Aromatic Hydrocarbons II. Role of Gallium Species in Propane
Transformation of GaHZSM5 Catalysts. Applied Catalysis 1988, 43, 155–166.
[352] Gnep, N.S.; Doyemet, J.Y.; Guisnet, M. Role of Gallium Species on the Dehydro-
cyclodimerization of Propane on ZSM5 Catalysts. Journal of Molecular Catalysis
1988, 45, 281–284.
[353] Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. Dehydrogenation and Dehydrocyclization Catalytic
Properties of Gallium Oxide. Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1989, 50, L7–L10.
[354] Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. The role of Ga2O3 and Proton Acidity on the Dehy-
drogenating Activity of Ga2O3-HZSM-5 Catalysts: Evidence of a Bifunctional
Mechanism. Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1990, 59, L31–L36.
[355] Price, G.L.; Kanazirev, V. The Oxidation State of Ga in Ga/ZSM-5 Light Parafﬁn
Aromatization Catalysts. Journal of Molecular Catalysis 1991, 66, 115–120.
[356] Derouane, E.G.; He, H.; Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Ivanova, I. In situ MAS NMR Inves-
tigations of Molecular Sieves and Zeolite-Catalyzed Reactions. Catalysis Letters
1999, 58, 1–19.
[357] Ivanova, I.I.; Blom, N.; Derouane, E.G. 13C MAS NMR Mechanistic Study of
Benzene Alkylation with Propane over Ga-Modiﬁed H-ZSM-5 Catalyst. Journal
of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical 1996, 109, 157–168.
[358] Barre, N.; Gnep, N.S.; Magnoux, P.; Sansare, S.; Choudhary, V.R.; Guisnet, M.S.
Ga2O3/HZSM5 Propane Aromatization Catalysts. Inﬂuence of the Hydrogen Pre-
treatment on the Acid and Redox Functions. Catalysis Letters 1993, 21, 275–281.
[359] Price, G.L.; Kanazirev, V.; Dooley, K.M.; Hart, V.I. On the Mechanism of Propane
Dehydrocyclization over Cation-Containing, Proton-Poor MFI Zeolite. Journal of
Catalysis 1998, 173, 17–27.
[360] Inui, T. Application of Shape Selective catalysts to Cn Chemistry. Studies in
Surface Science and Catalysis 1989, 44, 189–201.
[361] Dufresne, L.A.; le van Mao, R. Hydrogen Back-Spillover Effects in the Aromatiza-
tion of Ethylene on Hybrid ZSM-5 Catalysts. Catalysis Letters 1994, 25, 371–383.
[362] Iglesia, E.; Baumgartner, J.E.; Price, G.L. Kinetic Coupling and Hydrogen
Surface Fugacities in Heterogeneous Catalysis: I. Alkane Reactions on Te/NaX,
H-ZSM5, and Ga/H-ZSM5. Journal of Catalysis 1992, 134, 549–571.
[363] Gonzales, N.O.; Chakraborty, A.; Bell, A.T. A Density Functional Theory Study of
Hydrogen Recombination and Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange on Ga/H-ZSM-5.
Topics in Catalysis 1999, 9, 207–213.
[364] Meriaudeau, P.; Sapaly, G.; Naccache, C. Framework and Non-framework
Gallium in Pentasil-Like Zeolite as Studied in the Reaction of Propane. Journal
of Molecular Catalysis 1993, 81, 293–300.
[365] Meriaudeau, P.; Sapaly, G.; Dufaux, M.; Naccache, C. In Transformation of
Propane over Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts: on the Activation Procedure and the
Nature of the Active Site; Balmoos, V., Ed.; Butterworth-Heinemann: Montreal,
1992; 35–342.
[366] Bigey, C.; Su, B.-L. Propane as an Alkylating Agent for Alkylation of Benzene on
HZSM-5 and Ga-modiﬁed HZSM-5 Zeolites. Journal of Molecular Catalysis A:
Chemical 2004, 209, 179–187.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
148
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[367] Truitt, M.J.; Toporek, S.S.; Rovira-Truitt, R.; White, J.L. Alkane C-H Bond Acti-
vation in Zeolites: Evidence for Direct Protium Exchange. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
2006, 128, 1847–1852.
[368] Uguina, M.A.; Sotelo, J.L.; Serrano, D.P.; Valverde, J.L. Kinetics of Toluene Dis-
proportionation over Unmodiﬁed and Modiﬁed ZSM-5 Zeolites. Ind. Eng. Chem.
Res. 1993, 32, 49–55.
[369] Sirokman, G.; Sendoda, Y.; Ono, Y. Conversion of Pentane into Aromatics over
ZSM-5 Zeolites. Zeolites 1986, 6, 299–303.
[370] Simmons, D.K.; Szostak, R.; Agrawal, P.K.; Thomas, T.L. Gallosilicate Molecular
Sieves: The Role of Framework and Nonframework Gallium on Catalytic
Cracking Activity. Journal of Catalysis 1987, 106, 287–291.
[371] Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. HZSM-5 Supported Ga2O3 Dehydrocyclisation Cat-
alysts. Infrared Spectroscopic Evidence of Gallium Oxide Surface Mobility.
Applied Catalysis 1991, 73, L13–L18.
[372] Ono, Y.; Kunihiko, K. Transformation of Butanes over ZSM-5 Zeolites Part 2. -For-
mation of Aromatic Hydrocarbons over Zn-ZSM-5 and Ga-ZSM-5. J. Chem. Soc.
Faraday Transactions 1991, 87 (4), 669–675.
[373] Buckles, G.; Hutchings, G.J.; Williams, C.D. Propane Conversion over Zeolite Cat-
alysts: Comments on the role of Ga. Catalysis Letters 1991, 8, 115–124.
[374] Fujimoto, K.; Nakamura, I.; Yokota, K.; Aimoto, K. On the Role of Gallium for the
Aromatization of Lower Parafﬁns with Ga-Promoted ZSM-5 Catalysts. Bulletin of
the Chemical Society of Japan 1991, 64, 2275–2280.
[375] Harris, J.L.; Krisko, N.; Wang, X.M. Aromatization of Propane over a Zeolite
Catalyst in both a Microreactor and Pilot Plant. Applied Catalysis A: General
1992, 83, 59–74.
[376] Joly, J.F.; Ajot, H.; Alario, F.; Aittaleb, D.; Gnep, N.S.; Guisnet, M. In Evolution of
the Gallium Phase of Ga-H-MFI Aromatization Catalysts: Inﬂuence of Hydrogen;
Von Balmoos, et al., Eds.; 9th International Zeolite Conference. Butterworth-
Heinemann: Montreal; 501–505.
[377] Carli, R.; Van Mao, R.L.; Bianchi, C.L.; Ragaini, V. Hydrogen Sorption Sites in the
Gallium Containing Hybrid Catalysts Used for the Aromatization of Light
Alkanes. Catalysis Letters 1993, 21, 265–274.
[378] Meriaudeau, P.; Abdul Hamid, S.B.; Naccache, C. Propane Conversion on Ga-
HZSM-5: Effect of Aging on the Dehydrogenating and Acid Functions Using
Pyridine as an IR Probe. Journal of Catalysis 1993, 139, 679–682.
[379] Meriaudeau, P.; Sapaly, G.; Wicker, G.; Naccache, C. Revisiting Ga2O3/H-ZSM-5
propane aromatization catalysts. Catalysis Letters 1994, 27, 143–148.
[380] Giannetto, G.; Monque, R.; Galiasso, R. Transformation of LPG into Aromatic
Hydrocarbons and Hydrogen over Zeolite Catalysts. Catal. Rev.-Sci. Eng. 1994,
36, 271–304.
[381] Vargas, A.; Guzman, O.; Ferrat, G.; Guzman, M.L. Propane Transformation on
H-GaZSM-5 as a Function of Ga Content. Reaction Kinetics and Catalysis
Letters 1994, 52 (2), 461–466.
[382] Keipert, O.P.; Baerns, M. Interaction of C2-C6 hydrocarbons with Surface of
H-ZSM-5 and Ga-H-ZSM-5 Zeolites. Studies in Surface Science and Catalysis
1994, 84, 1757–1764.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
149
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[383] Kanazirev, V.; Dooley, K.M.; Price, G.L. Thermal Analysis of Adsorbed Propana-
mines for the Characterization of Ga-MFI Zeolites. Journal of Catalysis 1994,
146, 228–236.
[384] Meriaudeau, P.; Naccache, C. Further Evidence on the Change of Acid Properties
of HZSM-5 by Ga and Pt. Journal of Catalysis 1995, 157, 283–288.
[385] Keipert, O.P.; Wolf, D.; Schulz, P.; Baerns, M. Kinetics of Ethane Aromatization
over a Gallium-doped H-ZSM-5 catalyst. Applied Catalysis A: General 1995,
131, 347–365.
[386] Guisnet, M.S.; Gnep, N.S. Aromatization of Propane over GaHMFI Catalysts.
Reaction Scheme, Nature of the Dehydrogenating Species and Mode of Coke For-
mation. Catalysis Today 1996, 31, 275–292.
[387] Halasz, J.; Konya, Z.; Fudala, A.; Beres, A.; Kiricsi, I. Indium and Gallium Con-
taining ZSM-5 Zeolites: Acidity and Catalytic Activity in Propane Transform-
ation. Catalysis Today 1996, 31, 293–304.
[388] Arean, C.O.; Palomino, G.T.; Geobaldo, F.; Zecchina, A. Characterization of Gallo-
silicate MFI-type Zeolites by IR Spectroscopy of Adsorbed Probe Molecules.
J. Phys. Chem. 1996, 100, 6678–6690.
[389] Meriaudeau, P.; Dutel, J.F. Interaction of Propane with H-ZSM-5 and Ga/H-ZSM-
5 as Studied by IR Spectroscopy. Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: Chemical
1996, 108, L1–L3.
[390] Southward, B.W.L.; Nash, R.J.; O’Connor, C.T. In-situ DRIFTS Studies of the
Activation of Ga/H-ZSM-5 Catalysts for the Aromatization of Propane. Applied
Catalysis A: General 1996, 135, 177–191.
[391] Nash, R.J.; Dry, M.E.; O’Connor, C.T. Aromatization of 1-Hexene and 1-Octene by
Gallium/H-ZSM-5 Catalysts. Applied Catalysis A: General 1996, 134, 285–297.
[392] Choudhary, V.R.; Devdas, P.; Kinage, A.K.; Guisnet, M. H.Na-Gallosilicate (MFI)
Propane Aromatization Catalyst: Inﬂuence of Hþ Exchange on Acidity, Activity,
and Deactivation Due to Coking. Zeolites 1997, 18, 188–195.
[393] Qiu, P.; Lunsford, J.H.; Rosynek, M.P. Characterization of Ga/ZSM-5 for the Cat-
alytic Aromatization of Dilute Ethylene Streams. Catalysis Letters 1998, 52,
37–42.
[394] Lamberti, C.; Palomino, G.T.; Bordiga, S.; Zecchina, A.; Spano, G.; Arean, C.O.
EXAFS Studies on MFI-Type Gallosilicate Molecular Sieves. Catalysis Letters
1999, 63, 213–216.
[395] Fricke, R.; Kosslick, H.; Lischke, G.; Richter, M. Incorporation of Gallium into
Zeolites: Syntheses, Properties and Catalytic Application. Chemical Reviews
2000, 100, 2303–2405.
[396] Otero Arean, C.; Bonelli, B.; Palomino, G.T.; Canaleta Safont, A.M.; Garonne, E.
Formation and Partial Self-Healing of Lattice Defects during Thermal Treat-
ments of GaZSM-5: An FTIR Study Using CO as a Probe Molecule. Phys.
Chem. Chem. Phys. 2001, 3, 1223–1227.
[397] Sun, Y.; Brown, T.C. Catalytic Cracking, Dehydrogenation, and Aromatization of
Isobutane over Ga/HZSM-5 and Zn-HZSM-5 at Low Pressures. International
Journal of Chemical Kinetics 2001, 34, 467–480.
[398] Nishi, K.; Komai, S.; Inagaki, K.; Satsuma, A.; Hattori, T. Structure and the Cat-
alytic Properties of Ga-MFI in Propane Aromatization. Applied Catalysis A:
General 2002, 223, 187–193.
A. Bhan and W. N. Delgass
150
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
[399] Waku, T.; Yu, S.Y.; Iglesia, E. Staged O2 Introduction and Selective H2 Combus-
tion during Catalytic Reactions of Alkanes on Cation-Exchanged H-ZSM5. Ind.
Eng. Chem. Res. 2003, 42, 3680–3689.
[400] Kazansky, V.B.; Subbotina, I.R.; van Santen, R.A.; Hensen, E.J.M. DRIFTS Study
of the Nature and Chemical Reactivity of Gallium Ions in Ga/ZSM-5 II. Oxidation
of Reduced Ga Species in ZSM-5 by Nitrous Oxide or Water. Journal of Catalysis
2005, 233, 351–358.
[401] Pereira, M.S.; Nascimento, M.A.C. Theoretical Study of the Dehydrogenation
Reaction of Ethane Catalyzed by Zeolites Containing Non-Framework Gallium
Species: The 3-Step Mechanism x the 1-Step Concerted Mechanism. Chemical
Physics letters 2005, 406, 446–451.
[402] Choudhary, T.V.; Kinage, A.; Banerjee, S.; Choudhary, V.R. Inﬂuence of Si/Ga and
Si/Al Ratios on Propane Aromatization over Highly Active H-GaAlMFI. Catalysis
Communications 2006, 7, 166–169.
[403] Choudhary, T.V.; Kinage, A.; Banerjee, S.; Choudhary, V.R. Inﬂuence of Space
Velocity on Product Selectivity and Distribution of Aromatics in Propane Aroma-
tization over H-GaAIMFI Zeolite. Journal of Molecular Catalysis A: General
2006, 246, 79–84.
[404] Kuzmin, I.V.; Zhidomirov, G.M.; Hensen, E.J.M. A DFT Study of Hydrogen-Deu-
terium Exchange over Oxidized and Reduced Gallium Species in Ga/HZSM-5
Zeolite. Catalysis Letters 2006, 108, 187–191.
Propane Aromatization over HZSM-5 and Ga/HZSM-5 Catalysts
151
Downloaded by [Harvard College] at 06:34 18 August 2013 
