I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


98 Schrock Accounts of Chemical Research phenylhydrazones 24 and 25. When rats were treated with NNN, 73-8570 of the dose was excreted in the urine, but 20 and 21 were not detected. However,products of further oxidation of 20 and 21, the keto acid 23, hydroxy acid 26, and lactone 27 were isolated. The formation of 20 and 21 in vitro is most readily explained by initial 2-hydroxylation or 5-hydroxylation of NNN,as indicated in Scheme IV. The metabolites 23, 26, and 27 were formed, at least partially, by metabolic oxi- dation of 20 and 21. Pathways other than an initial a-hydroxylation of NNN could have been involved in the formation of 23,26, and 27, which are also observed in the metabolism of nicotine.69 The results of these in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrate that both NPy and NNN undergo met- abolic a-hydroxylation in the rat. The mutagenicity data discussed above are consistent with the involve- ment of a-hydroxylation as the critical step in the metabolic activation of NPy and NNN. Further evi- dence on the role of a-hydroxylation in the activation of these compounds is currently being sought through carcinogenicity studies of a-deuterated NNN deriva- tives and through studies of the binding of NPy and NNN to DNA and RNA of target tissues.
Prospects The results described in this review indicate that the tobacco-specific carcinogens, NNN and NNK, may be causative factors in the various cancers associated with tobacco usage. These nitrosamines are derived pre- dominantly from the major tobacco alkaloid, nicotine,by nitrosation during the curing and smoking of to- bacco. Other tobacco alkaloids may also be precursors to carcinogenic nitrosamines. Since NNN and NNK form during curing, it is feasible to reduce their con- centrations in tobacco by appropriate management of (69) Gorrod, J. W.; Jenner, P. In: Essays in Toxicology, Hayes, W.
J., Ed.; Vol. 6; Academic Press: New York, 1975, p 35.
the curing and related processes. Formation during smoking can also be inhibited. The reduction of these and related nitrosamines in tobacco and tobacco smoke is one approach to reduce tobacco-related cancers.
A second approach begins with an understanding of the metabolic activation and detoxification of tobac- co-specific nitrosamines. The enzymes that mediate these transformations can be induced or inhibited by environmental modifiers. Such modifiers may increase or decrease the carcinogenic effects of these nitros- amines. NNN and NPy, as well as NNK, all undergo metabolic a-hydroxylation which is a likely activation process. Specific induction of a-hydroxylation could lead to greater carcinogenic activity; the modifier causing this would act as a cocarcinogen. Similarly,specific inhibition of a-hydroxylation could have a protective effect against carcinogenesis by these ni- trosamines. The identification of these modifiers through metabolic studies and bioassays is important for a more complete characterization of the causative factors in tobacco carcinogenesis and for the prevention of tobacco-related cancer.
Recently -nitrosoan- atabine, another tobacco-specific N-nitrosamine, has been identified in tobacco (0.6-13 ppm), cigarette smoke (0.33-4.6 hg/cig), and cigarette sidestream smoke (0.15-1.5 pg/cig).70 Data on the carcinogenic activity of this nitrosamine are not yet available.
This uork was supported by National Cancer Institute Grants No. I-CP-55666, CA-012376, and CA-21393. S.S.H. is recipient of National Cancer Institute Research Career Development Award No. 5K04CA00124. W e  are grateful to Dr. Edmond LaVoie for mutagenicity assays and to Dr. G. David McCoy for helpful discussions on the metabolism experiments in vitro. W e greatly appreciate the cooperation of Dr. T .  C. Tso, USDA, Beltsuille, MD, for providing us with experimental tobacco samples.
Note Added in Proof.
(70) Hoffmann, D.; et ai., submitted for publication.
Alkylidene Complexes of Niobium and Tantalum
RICHARD
R. SCHROCK
Contribution from the Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139 Received February 6, 1978 Complexes containing a heteroatom-substituted carbene ligand, such as W(CO)6[C(Ph)(OMe)],were first prepared by Fischer 15 years ag0.l Hundreds are now known which contain metals from groups 6-8 (usually in a 0 or +1 formal oxidation state if the carbene is taken to be a neutral two-electron ligand).
By comparison, isolable complexes of carbenes which contain only C and H (primary and secondary alkyl- Richard R. Schrock received his B.A. degree from the University of California (Riverside) and his Ph.D. degree (in 1971) from Harvard University. After 1 year as an NSF Postdoctoral Fellow at Cambridge University, he accepted a position at the &&ai Research and Development Department of E.
I. du Pont de Nemours
and Company. Since 1975 he has been at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology where he is at present an Associate Professor. His interests include synthetic and mechanistic organo-transition-metal chemistry and homogeneous catalysis. 0001-4842/79/0112-0098$01.00/0 idene complexes2) are rare, possibly because alkylidene ligands are not stabilized by a heteroatom substituent and the complexes therefore are more reactive. They (especially primary alkylidene complexes) had been postulated for several years as intermediates in the decomposition of transition-metal alkyl complexes3 and (1) For reviews see D. J. Cardin, B. Cetinkaya, and M. F. Lappert, Chern.
Reu., 72,576 (1972), and F. A. Cotton and C. M. Lukehart, Prog. Inorg.
Chem., 16, 243 (1972).
(2) The alkylidene nomenclature is a useful, less misleading alternative to the carbene nomenclature. An alkylidene is derived from an alkyl ligand by removing an a-hydrogen atom. A primary alkylidene is derived from a primary alkyl ligand, methylene being a unique member of this family.
A secondary alkylidene (or disubstituted methylene) is derived from a secondary alkyl ligand.
(3) (a) R. R. Schrock and G. W. Parshall, Chem. Reu., 76, 243 (1976);(b) P. J. Davidson, M. F. Lappert, and R. Pearce, ibid., 76, 219 (1.976). 0 1979 American Chemical Society Vol. 12, 1979 Alkylidene Complexes of Niobium and Tantalum 99 in catalytic reactions such as the Cu(1)-catalyzed for- mation of a cyclopropane from diazomethane and an olefin,4 olefin metatheis,the rearrangement of small-ring hydrocarbons,6 and the reduction of CO by
H2. But the three which had been isolated by 1974
[Cr(C0)5(2,3-diphenyIcyclopropenylidene),8
W(CO)5-
(CPh2),9 and [Fe(v5-C5H5) (C0)2(benzocyclobutenylid- me)]+ lo] are all similar to Fischer-type carbene com- plexes in the sense that they are 18-electron species,contain a metal in formally the 0 or +1 oxidation state,have at least one stabilizing resonance form, and react with nucleophiles at C, of the alkylidene ligand.
In 1974 a 10-electron Ta (formally 3f) neopentyl- idene complex was isolated as the product of decom- position of a Ta5+ neopentyl complex by loss of neo- pentane.
This novel intramolecular a-hydrogen abstraction reaction has since been used to prepare a fairly large class of Ta (and Nb) neopentylidene and benzylidene complexes while an extension of the principle of a abstraction provided the first example of a stable transition-metal methylene complex. It thus became possible to structurally and spectroscopically characterize and systematically study the fundamental reactions of a number of related Nb and Ta alkylidene complexes. In the process we have begun to understand some aspects of the a-abstraction process by which they are formed, why they are stable, how these findings relate to the chemistry of other transition-metal alkyl complexes, and to what extent this chemistry is related to that of the main group cousins of Nb and Ta, namely, P, As, and Sb.
Preparation of Monoalkylidene Complexes One would expect the reaction between Ta- (CH2CMe3)3C12 and 2 mol of LiCH2CMe3 in pentane to give Ta(CH2CMe3)5 based on similar preparations of Ta(CH2Ph),and TaMe5.11 Instead, sublimable, orange,crystalline 3 forms quantitatively12 (eq 1). The most -CMe4 M(CH2CMe3)4C1 - 1 1 LiCH,CH3 (Me3CCH2)2C1M=CHCMe3 9
Y
M(CH2CMe3)3(CHCMe3) (1) 3 (4) (a) W. Kirmse, Carbene Chemistry, Vol. 1, Academic Press, New York and London, 1971, and references therein; (b) Carbenes, Vol. 1,
M. Jones, Jr., and R. A. Moss, Ed., Wiley-Interscience, 1973.
(5) (a) R. J. Haines and G. J. Leigh, Chem. SOC.
Reu., 4, 155 (1975);(b) N. Calderon, E. A. Ofstead, and W. A. Judy, Angew. Chem., Int. Ed.
Engl., 15, 401 (1976).
(6) (a) R. Noyori, T. Suzuki, Y. Kumagai, and H. Takaya, J.
Am. Chem.
SOC.,
93,5894 (1971); (b) R. Noyori, Tetrahedron Lett., 1691 (1973), and


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the preparation, structure, and catalytic properties of silica-supported zirconium hydrides and alumina-supported thorium hydrides in C-H bond activation reactions, detailing their mechanisms in H/D exchange and alkane metathesis. Include discussions on reaction rates, selectivity, and the roles of σ-bond metathesis, hydrogenolysis, and chain walking in these processes.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 