I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


Modification of the catalytic behaviour of platinum by zinc in crotonaldehyde hydrogenation and iso-butane dehydrogenation Abstract The effect of the presence of zinc on the catalytic behaviour of platinum in the vapour phase hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde (2-butenal) and in iso-butane dehydrogenation has been determined in activated carbon-supported catalysts prepared using H2PtCl6 and Zn(NO3)2 as the metal precursors. The catalysts have been characterised by temperature-programmed reduction (TPR), adsorption microcalorimetry of CO at room temperature and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy after in situ reduction at 773 K. The bimetallic catalyst, with a bulk Zn/Pt atomic ratio of 13.7, showed a much higher initial activity in crotonaldehyde hydrogenation, although it deactivated more strongly with time on stream. Lower activation energy for this reaction was also obtained, as well as a higher selectivity towards the unsaturated alcohol. On the other hand, the catalytic behaviour for iso-butane dehydrogenation was greatly improved by the presence of zinc, the bimetallic catalyst being more active than its monometallic counterpart and showing 100% selectivity to iso-butene.
1. Introduction
The modification of the catalytic behaviour of a noble metal through the addition of a second non-active metal able to form alloy phases or intermetallic compounds with the former is an interesting field in heterogeneous catalysis. As an example, the platinumtin system supported on alumina is widely used in naphtha reforming and alkane dehydrogenation reactions, where it exhibits higher activity and stability than monometallic platinum catalysts [1] . Some recent papers have dealt with the use of Pt-Sn/Al2O3 catalysts for the dehydrogenation of iso-butane [2] ,[3] , n-butane [4] and propane [5] ,[6] ,[7] . Iso-butane dehydrogenation has also been studied over PtSn supported on silica [8] ,[9] ,[10] ,[11] ,[12] and on l-zeolite [9] ,[12] ,[13] . Other important applications of bimetallic Pt-Sn catalysts include the oxidation of carbon monoxide [14] ,[15] ,[16] ,[17] and the selective hydrogenation of the carbonyl bond in α,β-unsaturated aldehydes (acrolein, crotonaldehyde, 3-methylcrotonaldehyde, etc.) to yield unsaturated alcohols [18] ,[19] ,[20] ,[21] ,[22] . For this latter reaction, it has been shown that the catalytic performance depends on the Sn/Pt atomic ratio, the preparation method and, chiefly, on the interaction between platinum and tin species, both in the metallic state and in oxidised states.
The PtZn system resembles in some aspects the PtSn system. Platinum and zinc can also form alloy phases of different stoichiometries (PtZn, Pt3Zn, among others), which may show distinctive catalytic behaviour as compared to monometallic platinum. Furthermore, ZnO has n-type semiconductor character and thus, a strong interaction between platinum and ZnO can be expected. The use of ZnO as a support for platinum in different reactions is currently being the subject of an intense research work. For example, it has been reported that Pt/ZnO catalysts can achieve 99% selectivity at 45% conversion in the dehydrogenation of iso-butane to iso-butene at 723 K [23] . In the field of selective hydrogenations, Consonni et al. have studied Pt/ZnO catalysts in the vapour phase hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde, and they concluded that the selectivity to the unsaturated alcohol (crotyl alcohol) increased with the extent of alloy formation [24] . A similar favourable effect of zinc has been recently obtained in our laboratory when studying catalysts prepared by impregnation of zinc-exchanged NaX zeolites with H2PtCl6 [25] . The bimetallic catalysts showed enhanced selectivity towards the hydrogenation of the CO bond of crotonaldehyde as compared to the monometallic platinum catalyst, although the catalytic activity was considerably reduced. The results were explained on the basis of the formation of PtZn alloy phases after the reduction of Zn(II) species, which was observed to be favoured by the presence of the noble metal. In fact, DFT calculations for the adsorption of ethylene and formaldehyde on Pt(1 1 1), Pt3Zn(1 1 1) and PtZn(0 1 1) surfaces have demonstrated that addition of zinc to platinum weakens the adsorption of both olefinic (CC) and carbonyl (CO) bonds, but the effect is more important for the former [26] . This means that whereas on Pt catalysts, the adsorption trough the CC double bond is highly favoured, on PtZn catalysts, the adsorption of the carbonyl bond on PtZn bridge sites is able to compete with that of the CC double bond. Thus, these results could explain the enhanced selectivity of Pt-Zn catalysts in the hydrogenation of α,β-unsaturated aldehydes.
The use of zinc as promoter or support for selective hydrogenation reactions is not limited to platinum catalysts. It has been recently reported that Au/ZnO catalysts were also selective for the formation of crotyl alcohol in the vapour phase hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde [27] ,[28] . The reaction was carried out at a relatively high temperature (523 K), and a much higher selectivity to the unsaturated alcohol was found with Au/ZnO than with Au/SiO2 under the same reaction conditions. In addition, the selectivity increased with the reduction temperature, from 523 to 673 K, in such a way that it achieved a maximum of 82% for Au/ZnO reduced at 673 K. The superior performance of Au/ZnO catalysts was explained by the formation of interfacial sites adjacent to Au particles that can activate the reactant and facilitate its hydrogenation. The same authors have recently reported the catalytic behaviour of Ag/ZnO catalysts in the same reaction. Selectivities to crotyl alcohol of about 70% were obtained during reaction at 523 K [29] .
This paper compares the catalytic behaviour of two activated carbon-supported catalysts, monometallic Pt and bimetallic PtZn, in two very different reactions: the vapour phase hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde and the dehydrogenation of iso-butane. Carbonaceous materials are being more and more frequently used as catalyst supports [30] . They contribute with a high surface area and, in bimetallic systems such as PtZn, their inertness favours the interaction between both metals, whereas undesired interactions with the support are avoided.
2. Experimental
The support used was a commercial activated carbon from Norit (Norit RX-3). It had a BET surface area (N2, 77 K) of 1350 m2 g1 and micropore volumes of 0.67 cm3 g1 (N2, 77 K, Dubinin-Radushkevich) and 0.30 cm3 g1 (CO2, 273 K, Dubinin-Radushkevich). The bimetallic Pt-Zn catalyst was prepared by sequential impregnation of the previously dried support (383 K, overnight). First, zinc was deposited by impregnation (100 cm3 of solution per gram of support) with an aqueous solution of Zn(NO3)2·6H2O (from Aldrich, 98% purity) of the appropriate concentration to obtain a Zn loading of 1 wt.%. The excess of solvent was removed by flowing nitrogen through the slurry at 333 K and the remaining solid was dried overnight at 383 K and heat treated in flowing helium (50 cm3 min1) at 673 K for 4 h (heating rate: 5 K min1) to decompose the nitrate precursor. After this treatment, platinum was deposited by impregnation with an acetone solution of H2PtCl6 of the appropriate concentration to load 0.2 wt.%. Once again, the excess of solvent was removed and the catalyst dried as described previously. No calcination was carried out at this stage. A monometallic Pt catalyst was prepared in a similar way for the sake of comparison. The metallic content in the catalysts was determined by atomic absorption spectroscopy (AAS) using a Varian SpectrAA 220FS spectrometer.
The chemical surface analysis of the catalysts, both in fresh and reduced states, was studied by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Zinc in the bimetallic catalyst was also analyzed by Auger electron spectroscopy (AES), simultaneously to the XPS measurements. The spectra were acquired with a VG-Microtech Multilab 3000 spectrometer equipped with a hemispherical electron analyser and a Mg Kα (hν = 1253.6 eV, 1 eV = 1.6302 × 1019 J) 300 W X-ray source. The powder samples were pressed into small Inox cylinders and then mounted on a sample rod placed in a pre-treatment chamber and reduced in flowing H2 at 773 K for 1 h (heating rate: 5 K min1), before being transferred to the analysis chamber. The analysis of fresh samples, without any reduction treatment, was also carried out for the sake of comparison. Before recording the spectra, the sample was maintained in the analysis chamber until a residual pressure of ca. 5 × 109 mbar was reached. The spectra were collected at a pass energy of 50 eV. The intensities were estimated by calculating the integral of each peak, after subtraction of the S-shaped background, and by fitting the experimental curve to a combination of Lorentzian (30%) and Gaussian (70%) lines. All binding energies were referenced to the C 1s line at 284.6 eV, which provided binding energy values with an accuracy of 0.2 eV.
Temperature-programmed reduction (TPR) measurements were carried out on a U-shaped quartz reactor under a 5%H2/He gas flow of 50 cm3 min1 and about 200 mg of sample. Hydrogen consumption was followed by on-line mass spectrometry.Differential heats of CO adsorption were measured at 300 K in a Setaram BT2.15D heat-flux calorimeter. This calorimeter was connected to a high vacuum (base pressure <105 Torr) manometric system employing Baratron capacitance manometers for precision pressure measurement (0.5 × 104 Torr). The maximum apparent leak rate of the system (including the calorimetric cells) was 105 Torr/min in a system volume of approximately 80 cm3 (i.e. 105 μmol/min). The procedure for microcalorimetric measurements used in this study is described below: each sample (about 0.25 g.) was treated ex situ in ultrapure hydrogen (99.999%, Air Liquide) for 2 h at 773 K (heating rate: 2 K min1) and then purged for 1 h at the same temperature in ultrahigh purity helium (99.999%, Air Liquide) in order to remove adsorbed hydrogen. Both gases were further purified by passage through copper turnings at 473 K and activated molecular sieves (13×) at 77 K in order to remove oxygen and water traces. The treated sample was sealed in a Pyrex NMR tube capsule and broken in a special calorimetric cell [31] after the sample had attained thermal equilibrium with the calorimeter. The microcalorimetric data were collected by sequentially introducing small doses (110 μmol) of CO (99.5%, with further purification, Air Liquide) onto the sample until it became saturated. The resulting heat response for each dose was recorded as a function of time and integrated to determine the energy released (mJ). The amount of gas adsorbed (μmol) was determined manometrically from the dose, equilibrium pressures, and the system volumes and temperatures. The time required for the pressure to equilibrate in the calorimeter after each dose was approximately 115 min, and the heat response was monitored for 2030 min after each dose to ensure that all heat was detected and to allow the heat response to return to the baseline value. The differential heat (kJ/mol), defined as the negative of the enthalpy change of adsorption per mole of gas adsorbed, was then calculated for each dose by dividing the heat released by the amount adsorbed.The catalytic behaviour of the catalysts in crotonaldehyde hydrogenation was determined in the vapour phase at atmospheric pressure, using a dynamic glass micro-flow reactor equipped with an automatic on-line analysis system. Before the catalytic measurements, the catalysts (about 100 mg) were reduced in flowing H2 at 773 K for 2 h, with a heating rate of 2 K min1, and then cooled under hydrogen to the reaction temperature. Crotonaldehyde hydrogenation was then performed at 353 K; the reaction mixture, in a H2/crotonaldehyde ratio of 26, was prepared by passing a hydrogen flow through a saturator containing crotonaldehyde, which was thermostabilised at 293 K. A Carbowax 20M 58/90 2530 m semi-capillary column was used to separate the reaction products, which were analyzed by gas chromatography.Catalytic behaviour in iso-butane dehydrogenation was conducted using a stainless-steel apparatus and a glass, continuous-flow reactor. Iso-butane (99.95%, Air Liquide), hydrogen and helium as a carrier gas were the gases employed. Two hundred milligrams of catalysts were used for each reaction test. All charged catalysts were reduced in situ in a stream of hydrogen at 773 K for 2 h, with a heating rate of 2 K min1. Iso-butane reactivity was measured at 773 K, 0.016 atm of iso-butane, 0.098 atm of hydrogen and a total pressure of 1 atm. The reactor inlet and outlet gases were analyzed by a Varian Star 3400 Cx gas cromatograph with a FID detector and a 50 meters HP-Al/S column (J&W Scientific) at 313 K.
3. Results and discussion
The platinum content in the catalysts was 0.22 wt.% for the monometallic and 0.20 wt.% for the bimetallic, respectively. For this latter, the zinc content was 0.92 wt.% and, consequently, the bulk Zn/Pt atomic ratio was 13.7.
The temperature-programmed reduction profiles obtained with the fresh catalysts are reported in Fig. 1 . The TPR profile obtained with the monometallic Pt/C catalyst shows a broad hydrogen consumption band centred at about 570 K, which can be ascribed to the reduction of Pt(II) species to metallic Pt. It has to be noticed that, although the precursor used contains Pt in its higher oxidation state (Pt(IV)), it becomes reduced upon contacting with the carbonaceous support [32] ,[33] . There is another maximum in hydrogen consumption at higher temperatures (about 900 K), which is due to the gasification of the support to form methane, a reaction which is catalysed by the supported platinum.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 1. Temperature-programmed reduction profiles of catalysts Pt/C () and PtZn/C ().The amount of hydrogen consumed in the TPR experiments is much higher for the Zn-containing catalyst ( Fig. 1 ). A sharp reduction peak centred at 546 K is obtained in the TPR of sample PtZn/C. A similar TPR peak has been reported for the reduction of a Pt/ZnO catalyst prepared from H2PtCl6, where it was ascribed to the reduction of oxychlorinated platinum species [24] . As the amount of platinum in this catalyst is nearly the same than in the monometallic catalyst, for which a much lower reduction peak was detected, we ascribe this intense reduction peak to the joint reduction of platinum and zinc species.
3.1. XPS characterisation
Fig. 2 shows the Pt 4f spectra of catalysts Pt/C ( Fig. 2 a) and PtZn/C ( Fig. 2 b) both fresh and after in situ reduction in flowing hydrogen at 773 K. In this range, platinum signal is characterized by a doublet corresponding to the Pt 4f7/2 and Pt 4f5/2 levels, this latter appearing at a higher binding energy than the former. In the case of the fresh catalysts, a band appears between the platinum doublet. It is assigned to Al3+ in alumina, which seems to contaminate the fresh samples in some extent.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 2. XPS Pt 4f spectra of the fresh and reduced catalysts. (a) Pt/C; (b) PtZn/C.
Literature values reported for the Pt 4f7/2 level of platinum in different oxidation states are as follows [34] : Pt0, 71.071.3 eV; K2PtIICl4, 72.873.4 eV; K2PtIVCl6, 74.174.3 eV. In this way, the spectra obtained with the fresh catalysts indicate the presence of Pt(II) species in these samples, this demonstrating that Pt(IV) in the precursor compound, H2PtCl6, has become reduced upon impregnation on the carbon support and drying. Anyway, the degree of reduction is not as high as reported in other studies in which the impregnation of the carbonaceous support with a solution of the platinum precursor has been carried out in aqueous media [32] ,[33] . After reduction at 773 K, the most intense band appears at 71.4 eV in all cases, thus indicating the reduction of platinum to the metallic state.
The oxidation state of zinc in these catalyst cannot be elucidated by XPS analysis on the basis of the binding energy of the Zn 2p3/2 transition, due to the close appearance of bands corresponding to Zn(II) and metallic Zn species [35] . But interesting information could be drawn from the Zn LMM Auger transition, as the Auger shift between Zn2+ and Zn0 is higher than 4.6 eV [36] .
Fig. 3 shows the AES spectra obtained with catalyst PtZn/C, both freshly prepared and reduced at 773 K. A broad peak can be observed in the spectrum corresponding to the fresh sample, which seems to be composed by two contributions, at 984 and 987 eV. After reduction at 773 K, the broad peak is narrowed (the contribution at 984 eV disappears) and is centred at a kinetic energy of about 987 eV. This value, together with the experimental binding energy of the Zn 2p3/2 level at 1022.2 eV in the XPS spectra, allows to assign this Zn LMM Auger band to Zn(II) species. The contribution at 984 eV appearing in the spectra of the fresh catalyst can be assigned to the presence of chlorine in the catalyst ( Table 1 ). The kinetic energy value of 984 eV corresponds, taking into account the Mg anode used, to a binding energy of 280 eV, which fits the B.E. value of the Cl 2s level. This signal is not present in the reduced catalysts, as chorine is totally removed by the reduction treatment ( Table 1 ). Thus, although the TPR experiment showed the reduction of Zn(II) species at a temperature lower than 773 K, no clear evidences of the presence of metallic Zn could be found in the AES results.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 3. AES Zn (LMM) spectra of PtZn/C catalyst both fresh and after reduction at 773 K.
Table 1. XPS characterization of carbon-supported Pt and PtZn catalysts Catalyst Treatment Pt atomic (%) Zn atomic (%) Cl atomic (%) Zn/Pt atomic Pt/C (×104) atomic Pt/C  0.018  0.309  2.1 Red. 773 K 0.028    3.0
PtZn/C  0.005 0.090 0.386 18.0 0.6 Red. 773 K 0.017 0.100  5.9 1.8 Table 1 shows the surface atomic concentration (%) of platinum and zinc, obtained from the XPS measurements, for the fresh and reduced catalysts. For the monometallic catalyst, the reduction treatment produces a surface enrichment of platinum that is likely related to the migration of the metallic particles formed upon reduction to the external surface of the carbon support, where they are fully accessible to the X-ray beam. A similar result, although to a larger extent, are obtained for the bimetallic catalyst. As the surface atomic concentration of zinc only slightly increases upon reduction, the atomic Zn/Pt ratio strongly decreases upon reduction, yielding a final value (5.9) which is lower than the bulk Zn/Pt ratio (13.7).
3.2. CO chemisorption
The adsorption isotherms of CO at room temperature on the catalysts, after reduction at 773 K, are plotted in Fig. 4 . The monolayer capacity has been obtained from the extrapolation of the linear branch at higher pressures to zero pressure, resulting 14.3 μmol gcat1 for Pt/C and 8.5 μmol gcat1 for PtZn/C. These amounts correspond to CO/Pt ratios of 1.3 and 0.83 for the mono- and the bimetallic catalysts, respectively, taking into account the total platinum loading in the catalysts and assuming that no CO is adsorbed on zinc sites. Although the reversibly adsorbed CO has not been estimated by carrying out a second isotherm after out-gassing, these high CO/Pt ratios already indicate a high dispersion of platinum atoms in small particles. The lower CO capacity for the bimetallic catalyst could be due to: (i) larger platinum particles; (ii) partial surface coverage of platinum particles by zinc species; and (iii) formation of bimetallic PtZn particles, in which surface platinum is diluted by zinc atoms. The measurement of the heat evolved when CO is adsorbed can add some light to this point.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 4. CO adsorption isotherms at 300 K for the reduced catalysts.
Fig. 5 shows a plot of differential heat versus coverage (amount of gas adsorbed/amount of gas needed to form the monolayer) for CO adsorption on the reduced Pt/C and PtZn/C catalysts. For the monometallic Pt/C catalyst, the figure shows initial differential heats for CO adsorption of 115 kJ mol1. This value remains up to a coverage of about 0.3 and then decreases with increasing coverage due to adsorption on weaker sites and/or interaction between adsorbed species [37] . The decrease is faster for coverages higher than 0.75, as the surface is saturated. The addition of zinc decreases the monolayer capacity of CO on the catalyst, as indicated above. For coverages close to saturation, Fig. 5 shows that the differential heats of CO adsorption for both catalysts are the same, but differences arise at lower coverages, where values for the bimetallic sample are substantially lower than those for the Pt/C catalyst. The determination of the initial heat of adsorption for the bimetallic catalysts from the experimental results is not accurate. If the first experimental point is taken as the initial heat, a value of 105 kJ mol1 is obtained, which is lower than the 115 kJ mol1 obtained for the zinc free sample. However, if the extrapolation of the experimental points to zero coverage is used to estimate the initial heat, the value obtained is the same as in the absence of zinc. In any case, the differential heat of CO adsorption strongly decreases with coverage, this indicating a heterogeneous distribution of weaker adsorption sites, induced by the presence of zinc. These results help to discard the possibility of the lower CO chemisorption capacity of the bimetallic catalyst being due to the existence of larger platinum particles, as it has been shown that the particle size does not have a significant effect on the heat of CO adsorption [38] . It seems clear that zinc weakens the interaction of CO with the surface platinum atoms, at least with the main part of them, and this can be originated by the coverage of the strongest adsorption sites by zinc, but also by the weakening of the adsorption sites by a ligand effect caused by alloy formation. Similar results were obtained by Cortright and Dumesic for CO adsorption on bimetallic Pt/Sn catalysts [37] . In our case, due to the high bulk Zn/Pt ratio both facts can be expected to account for the observed results.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 5. Differential heat vs. adsorbate coverage for CO adsorption on the reduced catalysts, at 300 K.
3.3. Catalytic activity
Fig. 6 plots the overall catalytic activity (micromoles of crotonaldehyde transformed per second per gram of Pt) as a function of time on stream at 353 K for both the monometallic and the bimetallic catalysts reduced at 773 K for 2 h. The initial data were taken after 10 min on stream, when the carbon balance was achieved. Prior to this, a proportion of reactant and products were adsorbed by the catalyst and no reliable measurements could be performed.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 6. Catalytic activity in crotonaldehyde hydrogenation for catalysts Pt/C () and PtZn/C (), as a function of time on stream at 353 K, after reduction at 773 K.After an initial period of deactivation, the activity remained quite stable with time. The monometallic Pt/C catalyst shows an initial activity of about 420 μmol s1 g Pt1 and, after a relatively small deactivation, reaches a steady-state activity of about 300 μmol s1 g Pt1. The initial activity is nearly two-fold for the bimetallic sample, although the deactivation is stronger and the steady-state activity remains in only 160 μmol s1 g Pt1. It is interesting to note that this much higher initial activity is achieved in spite of the lower amount of surface platinum atoms available, as determined by CO chemisorption and by XPS (Pt/C atomic ratio in Table 1 ). Further deactivation seems to be related to the higher initial activity, as it has been shown that it is mainly due to poisoning by CO produced by decarbonylation reactions [39] .
Apparent activation energies (Ea(app)) for both catalyst have been obtained in the reaction temperature range from 353 to 393 K. When the initial activities have been taken into consideration, Ea(app) moves from 32 kJ mol1 for the monometallic catalyst to 21 kJ mol1 for the bimetallic one. A similar sequence is obtained with the nearly steady-state values after 100 min on stream: 49 kJ mol1 for Pt/C and 33 kJ mol1 for PtZn/C. These values are similar to those reported in the literature by Vannice and Sen [40] for monometallic platinum catalysts with different supports (1334 kJ mol1), although the highest activation energy corresponded to the catalysts which were more selective towards the hydrogenation of the carbonyl bond. Values in the same range were also reported for PtNi/TiO2 [41] and PtSn/Carbon black [18] . For PtNi/TiO2, Ea(app) increased from 29 to 54 kJ mol1 when the nickel loading was increased and, at the same time, the selectivity towards crotyl alcohol decreased. Similarly, the Ea(app) reported for the monometallic Pt/Carbon black catalyst, 31 kJ mol1, was higher than that for the bimetallic PtSn/Carbon black sample, 18 kJ mol1, which showed a higher selectivity.
The change of selectivity (%, molar fraction) to crotyl alcohol (2-buten-1-ol) and to light hydrocarbons (butane and propane) with time on stream at 353 K for the bimetallic PtZn/C catalyst is plotted in Fig. 7 . The balance to 100% corresponds to selectivity to the saturated aldehyde (butanal). Selectivity of the monometallic catalyst (not shown) does not change with time on stream, producing only butanal (92%) and light hydrocarbons (8%). For the bimetallic catalyst, in the first stages of the reaction after the carbon balance has been achieved, selectivity towards crotyl alcohol is about 10%, but it increases with time on stream to achieve 25% after 30 min at the expense of butanal. From then on, selectivity to crotyl alcohol smoothly decreases and reaches a nearly steady-state value of about 14%.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 7. Selectivity to crotyl alcohol () and to light hydrocarbons () for catalyst PtZn/C, as a function of time on stream at 353 K, after reduction at 773 K. Conversion values at selected times, in brackets.
The higher selectivity of the bimetallic PtZn/C catalysts towards the hydrogenation of the carbonyl bond, as compared with that of the monometallic counterpart (which only produces butanal and light hydrocarbons), can be attributed to the formation of PtZn bimetallic particles. In a recent paper, Ammari et al.
[42] reported a study of crotonaldehyde hydrogenation on Pt/ZnO catalysts in which up to 85% selectivity to crotyl alcohol was obtained with the catalyst prepared from H2PtCl6 in which the formation of bimetallic PtZn particles were detected. This catalytic behaviour was ascribed to both an effect of alloy formation and to a promoter effect by chlorine, which would increase the support Lewis acidity and influence the electronic properties of the metal particles. The PtZn/C catalyst reported in this study showed a lower selectivity to crotyl alcohol. In this case, although the formation of bimetallic particles can account for the higher selectivity as compared with the monometallic catalyst, there is not an effect of support acidity. Furthermore, it has also to be taken into account the differences in the experimental conditions with, for example, a crotonaldehyde partial pressure of only 8 Torr versus 28 Torr in this study.
Fig. 8 plots the catalytic activity for iso-butane dehydrogenation for both catalysts under study. Monometallic catalyst showed higher initial activity than its bimetallic counterpart (initial conversion: 29.9% for Pt/C and 21.8% for PtZn/C), although it underwent fast deactivation during the first 3 h on stream. After this period, deactivation was strongly suppressed and catalytic activity remained almost stable, reaching a nearly steady-state conversion of 12%. In the case of bimetallic PtZn/C catalyst, the activity increased with time on stream during the first hour on stream (probably due to sublimation of some metallic Zn under reaction conditions) and, after this period, a slight deactivation was observed. The conversion degree was 17% after 25 h on stream. With regard to selectivity toward iso-butene ( Fig. 9 ), the monometallic catalyst showed an initial value of 70% which increased up to 85%. Selectivity to isomerization products (butenes and butane) decreased during the experimental run from 18 to 8%, whereas selectivity to cracking products (methane, propane and propene) decreased from 12 to 7%. In the case of the bimetallic catalyst, the initial selectivity was 100%, and remained stable until the end of the experiment.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 8. Catalytic activity in iso-butane dehydrogenation for catalysts Pt/C () and PtZn/C (), as a function of time on stream at 773 K, after reduction at 773 K.
Download: Download full-size image Fig. 9. Selectivity to iso-butene as a function of time on stream at 773 K, for catalysts Pt/C () and PtZn/C () reduced at 773 K.
The improvement in catalytic properties (activity, selectivity and stability) of bimetallic catalyst with regards to the monometallic can be also explained in this case by the formation of PtZn bimetallic particles. Deactivation in this kind of reactions is due to side reactions (mainly isomerization and cracking) which produce blocking of active sites by coke deposition. It has been probed that these side reactions require large platinum ensembles to constitute the active sites [12] ,[37] . In contrast, kinetic results suggest that dehydrogenation reactions can proceed on small ensembles of surface platinum atoms [12] . Thus, the formation of PtZn bimetallic particles (based on TPR and microcalorimetry results) reduces the size of the surface Pt ensembles, suppresses the undesired reactions and enhances selectivity and stability. In the case of Pt/C, deposition of carbon would be responsible of the strong deactivation observed. Also, the increase in selectivity in this sample with time on stream can be explained by the same geometrics arguments. The carbon deposits play the role of the inactive species that inhibit undesired reactions. Thus, both the selectivity and stability of the catalyst improve as a function of time on stream as the number of large ensembles is reduced by the presence of carbon.
4. Conclusions
The catalytic behaviour of Pt/C and PtZn/C catalysts after 773 K reduction has been compared in the selective hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde and in iso-butane dehydrogenation. In the bimetallic catalyst, the characterization results (TPR and adsorption microcalorimetry) indicate the formation of bimetallic PtZn particles, although some unreduced ZnO can be also present given the high Zn/Pt bulk ratio in this sample. In the vapour phase hydrogenation of crotonaldehyde, the bimetallic catalyst shows a much higher initial activity, although it also deactivates faster with time on stream; on the other hand, the selectivity for the hydrogenation of the carbonyl bond to yield crotyl alcohol was improved by the presence of zinc, achieving a maximum value of 25% which decreased with time on stream to stabilize at about 15%. The monometallic Pt/C catalyst yielded no crotyl alcohol at all. Finally, the bimetallic catalyst was much more active than the monometallic one in iso-butane dehydrogenation, exhibiting a 100% selectivity towards the dehydrogenated product, iso-butene.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


How do experimental techniques such as HREELS and AES verify and quantify the oxygen-induced surface segregation of subsurface 3d atoms (particularly Ni and Co) in Pt-3d-Pt(111) bimetallic systems, and how do the measured segregation kinetics and activation barriers compare with DFT predictions for these systems?


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 