<quotes>
[1] "Natural gas production from shale gas reservoirs is now proven to be feasible from numerous operations in various shale gas reservoirs in North America, but many challenges still remain in the full exploita- tion of these unconventional reservoirs."
[2] "Production from shale gas reservoirs requires stimulation by hydraulic fracturing due to the extremely low permeability of the reservoir rocks."
[3] "Although distinct in focus, these needs demonstrate the importance of the thorough charac- terization of shale gas reservoir (Table 4.1) as well as an understanding of how earth materials deform over various time scales and how it affect the current state of stress in the crust."
[4] "There is an additional issue that must be resolved if shale gas is to be a major contributor to US energy resources (or to the energy plans of any country)."
[5] "The issue is the amenability of the gas to be included in current gas processing scenarios (Mokhatab et al.,2006; Speight, 2007)."
[6] "On the understanding that shale gas reservoirs will vary in properties such as origin, permeability, and porosity, dif- ferences in properties of the shale gas must be anticipated (Bustin et al., 2008) (see Chapters 1 and 2)."
[7] "While shale gas resources represent a significant portion of current and future production, all shale gas is not constant in composition and gas processing requirements for shale gas can vary from area to area (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008; Weiland and Hatcher, 2012)."
[8] "The classic mechanisms of viscous flow and ideal-gas void-volume stor- age, as such, do not explain gas fractionation in gas wells."
[9] "The flow rate of an individual component of a gas mixture can be obtained by multiplying the total flow rate by the mole fraction of the individual component."
[10] "The second alternative is to assume that the gas composition changes observed at the wellbore reflect the changing composition of gas from at least some of the sources themselves."
[11] "Since these factors are commonly present, this second alternative may be involved in explaining the fractionation in many reservoirs (Schettler et al., 1989)."
[12] "As a result of these various phenomena that can cause changes in gas composition, shale gas processors must be concerned about ele- vated ethane and nitrogen levels across a field."
[13] "Other concerns are the increased requirements of urban gas processing."
[14] "However, because shale is composed primarily of tiny grains of clay minerals and quartz, the mineral components of mud, the composition of the shale reservoir can varyspecifically the rock properties such as porosity, permeability, capillary entry pressure, pore volume compress- ibility, pore size distribution, and flow path (collectively known as petrophysics) can vary considerably (Sone, 2012)."
[15] "These materials were deposited as sediment in water, which was then buried, compacted by the weight of overlying sediment, and cemented together to form a rock (lithification)."
[16] "Clay minerals are a type of sheet silicate related to mica that usually occurs in the form of thin plates or flakes."
[17] "This process, while appearing to be ordered in such a description, is in fact subject to geological disorder and thence subject to differing methods of entrapment of the organic material, different methods or rates of decomposition, different rates of formation of the gas, and hence different composition of the shale gas."
[18] "As a result of these various phenomena that can cause changes in gas composition, shale gas processors must be concerned about ele- vated ethane and nitrogen levels across a field."
[19] "Other concerns are the increased requirements of urban gas processing."
[20] "The liquid content of a gas is often measured in terms of the condensate ratio, which is expressed in terms of barrels of liquid per million cubic feet of gas (bbls/MMcf)."
[21] "In addition, it is often necessary to install scrubbers and heaters at or near the wellhead that serve primarily to remove sand and other large-particle impurities."
[22] "The heaters ensure that the temperature of the natural gas does not drop too low and form a hydrate with the water vapor content of the gas stream (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014)."
[23] "Many chemical processes are available for processing or refining natural gas."
[24] "In this choice, several factors must be considered: (i) the types and concentrations of contaminants in the gas, (ii) the degree of contaminant removal desired, (iii) the selectivity of acid gas removal required, (iv) the temperature, pressure, volume, and composition of the gas to be processed, (v) the carbon dioxidehydrogen sulfide ratio in the gas, and (vi) the desirability of sulfur recovery due to process economics or environmental issues."
[25] "Process selectivity indicates the preference with which the process removes one acid gas component relative to (or in preference to) another."
[26] "Whatever the situation, there is the need to prepare the gas for trans- portation and use in domestic and commercial furnaces."
[27] "Gas processing (Mokhatab et al., 2006; Speight, 2007, 2014) con- sists of separating all of the various hydrocarbons, non-hydrocarbons (such as carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulfide), and fluids from the methane (Figure 4.1; Table 4.2)."
[28] "Major transportation pipelines usually impose restrictions on the makeup of the natural gas that is allowed into the pipeline."
[29] "In many cases, the process complexities arise because of the need for recovery of the materials used to remove the contaminants or even for the recovery of the contaminants in the original, or altered, form (Kohl and Riesenfeld, 1985; Mokhatab et al., 2006; Newman, 1985)."
[30] "Initially, natural gas receives a degree of cleaning at the wellhead."
[31] "Throughout this chapter, two terms are used frequently: (i) absorp- tion and (ii) adsorption."
[32] "Absorption is achieved by dissolution (a physical phenomenon) or by reaction (a chemical phenomenon)."
[33] "The actual practice of processing natural gas to high-quality pipe- line gas for the consumer usually involves four main processes to remove the various impurities: (i) water removal, (ii) liquids removal,(iii) enrichment, (iv) fractionation, and (v) the process by which hydro- gen sulfide is converted to sulfur (the Claus process)."
[34] "In many instances, pressure relief at the wellhead will cause a natu- ral separation of gas from oil (using a conventional closed tank, where gravity separates the gas hydrocarbons from the higher-boiling crude oil)."
[35] "In some cases, however, a multistage gas-oil separation process is needed to separate the gas stream from the crude oil."
[36] "As the velocity of the stream reduces in the unit, primary separation of remaining contaminants occurs due to gravity."
[37] "Furthermore, as the gas stream continues through the series of tubes, a centrifugal force is generated which further removes any remaining water and small solid particulate matter."
[38] "Shale gas refers to natural gas (mainly methane) found in fine-grained,organic-rich rocks (gas shale) (see Chapters 1 and 2)."
[39] "In fact, source rock that are tight or inefficient at expelling hydrocarbons may be the best prospects for shale gas potential."
[40] "The natural gas found in these rocks is considered unconventional, similar to coalbed methane."
[41] "Shale gas is generated by any combination of (i) primary thermo- genic degradation of organic matter, (ii) secondary thermogenic decomposition of petroleum, and (iii) biogenic degradation of organic matter."
[42] "The shale formations in the United States that presently produce gas commercially exhibit an unexpectedly wide variation in the values of five key parameters: (i) thermal maturity, expressed as vitrinite reflec- tance, (ii) sorbed gas fraction, (iii) reservoir thickness, (iv) total organic carbon (TOC) content, and (v) volume of gas in place (see Chapter 2)."
[43] "A wide range of reservoir properties (see Chapter 2) control both the rate and the volume of shale gas production from the gas shale for- mations, notably: (i) thermal maturity, (ii) gas in place, TOC content,(iii) reservoir thickness, and (iv) proportion of sorbed gas."
[44] "Natural fracture networks are required to augment the extremely low shale matrix permeability."
[45] "Furthermore, in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin (WCSB), DevonianMississippian (DM) and Jurassic Shale formations have complex, heterogeneous pore volume distributions as identified by low- pressure carbon dioxide and nitrogen sorption (Ross and Bustin,2009)."
[46] "In fact, high-pressure methane isotherms on dried and moisture equilibrated shale samples show a general increase of gas sorption with TOC content."
[47] "In the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin (WCSB), DevonianMississippian (DM) and Jurassic Shale formations have complex, heterogeneous pore volume distributions as identified by low- pressure carbon dioxide and nitrogen sorption (Ross and Bustin,2009)."
[48] "In fact, high-pressure methane isotherms on dried and moisture equilibrated shale samples show a general increase of gas sorption with TOC content."
[49] "In fact, it is likely that structural transforma- tion of DM organic matter has occurred during thermal diagenesis creating and/or opening up microporosity onto which gas can sorb thereby also influencing the composition of the shale gas."
[50] "Clays are known to provide excellent adsorption surfaces for petroleum constituents (Speight, 2014) and are also capable of sorbing gas into the internal structure, the amount of which is dependent on clay type."
[51] "It is extremely important to identify reasonable ranges for these uncertainty parameters and evaluate their effects on well performance,because the detailed reservoir properties for each wellbore are difficult to determine."
[52] "Characterizing these organic-rich shale formations can be challenging as these rocks vary quite significantly (Passey et al., 2010)."
[53] "For instance, formations in the Barnett Shale are known to be more silica-rich, whereas Eagle Ford Shale rocks are generally carbonate- rich containing relatively smaller amounts of silica and clay."
[54] "Notably, gas-bearing shale formations are complex reser- voirs (with a porosity on the order of 4 to 6 porosity units and a total organic carbon content of $ 4% w/w), which represent significant vari- ety in reservoir characteristics (i.e., mineralogy, porosity, permeability,gas content, and pressure)."
[55] "Although shale gas represents a large, new source of natural gas and natural gas liquids (NGLs), shale gas is certainly not the same everywhere."
[56] "Produced shale gas observed to date has shown a broad variation in compositional makeup, with some having wider compo- nent ranges, a wider span of minimum and maximum heating values,and higher levels of water vapor and other substances than pipeline tariffs or purchase contracts may typically allow."
[57] "Ethane can be removed by cryogenic extraction while carbon dioxide can be removed through a scrubbing process."
[58] "In a traditional gas processing plant, the olamine of choice for hydrogen sulfide removal is N-methyl diethanolamine (MDEA)."
[59] "Significant associated water is produced, which requires central pro- duction facilities for dehydration, compression and disposal (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008)."
[60] "The Antrim Shale gas, for example, has high nitrogen concentra- tion, as does at least one well tested in the Barnett Shale formation."
[61] "In other gas shale resources, such as the Antrim resource and the New Albany resource, underlying Devonian formations may commu- nicate with and contaminate the shale formations."
[62] "In addition, some of the shale gas resources have low carbon dioxide content but have a sufficiently high content of hydrogen sulfide to require treating."
[63] "Early indications are that the Marcellus gas has sufficient liquids to require processing."
[64] "Vertical wells typically produce 25,00075,000 ft3/day, whereas hor- izontal wells can have initial production rates up to 2 million cubic feet per day (Bullin and Krouskop, 2008)."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
Shale gas properties and processing involve various challenges and considerations. The properties of shale gas reservoirs vary significantly, influenced by factors like origin, permeability, and porosity. This necessitates a thorough characterization of the reservoirs. The composition of shale gas can change during production, requiring careful handling to ensure compatibility with current gas processing scenarios. Processing of shale gas involves separating various hydrocarbons, non-hydrocarbons, and fluids from methane. The process complexity often arises due to the need for recovering contaminants or their altered forms. Shale gas processing aims to produce pipeline-quality gas suitable for transportation and use in domestic and commercial furnaces. The composition of shale gas varies widely across different formations, affecting the processing requirements. Shale gas can be processed through a series of steps including water removal, liquids removal, enrichment, fractionation, and conversion of hydrogen sulfide to sulfur. Shale gas processing must address issues like elevated ethane and nitrogen levels, increased urban gas processing requirements, and the management of natural gas liquids. The composition of shale gas can shift during production, impacting the overall decline curve. Shale gas processing must account for these shifts and ensure the gas meets pipeline specifications. Ethane and carbon dioxide can be removed through specific processes like cryogenic extraction and scrubbing. In the context of the Antrim, Barnett, Fayetteville, Haynesville, Marcellus, and New Albany shale formations, the composition of the gas varies significantly, with factors like hydrogen sulfide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, and water vapor content influencing processing requirements. The Marcellus shale gas, for example, has relatively low carbon dioxide and nitrogen content, requiring processing for transportation.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
页岩气属性和加工涉及多种挑战和考虑。页岩气储层的属性差异显著，受因素如起源、渗透性和孔隙度的影响。这需要对储层进行彻底的特征化。页岩气的组成在生产过程中会发生变化，要求仔细处理以确保与当前天然气处理方案兼容。页岩气处理涉及从甲烷中分离各种烃类、非烃类（如二氧化碳和硫化氢）和流体。过程复杂性往往源于回收污染物或其原始或改变形式的需求。页岩气处理旨在生产适合运输和用于家用及商用炉灶的管道质量气体。页岩气的组成在不同形成中广泛变化，影响处理需求。可以通过一系列步骤处理页岩气，包括水分去除、液体去除、增稠、分馏和氢化硫转化为硫。页岩气处理必须解决诸如乙烷和氮气水平升高、城市天然气处理需求增加以及天然气体液体管理的问题。页岩气组成的转变可能会影响生产，影响整体衰减曲线。页岩气处理必须考虑到这些转变，并确保气体符合管道规范。可以通过特定过程如低温提取和洗涤去除乙烷和二氧化碳。安特里姆、巴内特、弗耶蒂尔维尔、海恩斯维尔、马塞勒斯和新奥尔良页岩层的气体组成显著不同，氢气、二氧化碳、氮气和水蒸气含量的变化影响处理要求。例如，马塞勒斯页岩气的二氧化碳和氮气含量相对较低，需要处理以供运输。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
