<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<Questions>
   <Question number="1"> 
      <Quotes>
          No relevant quotes provided.
      </Quotes>
      <English>
          The primary challenges in current propylene production methods, such as steam cracking and fluid catalytic cracking, include high energy consumption, low selectivity towards propylene, and reliance on dwindling petroleum reserves. Oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) addresses these issues by offering a more energy-efficient process with higher selectivity for propylene production. However, ODHP presents its own set of advantages and limitations, particularly in the context of oxidant selection. Using oxygen as an oxidant can lead to overoxidation and the formation of undesired carbon oxides, while using molecular oxygen can result in higher selectivity but also higher costs. The specific challenges associated with using oxygen include the need for oxygen separation from air, which can be energy-intensive, and the risk of overoxidation, which can reduce the yield of propylene. Oxygen is a cheap and abundant oxidant, but its use can lead to overoxidation and the formation of undesired byproducts such as carbon oxides. The presence of oxygen can also cause hotspots in the catalyst bed, leading to temperature control issues. To mitigate these challenges, the development of suitable catalysts and reactor designs is crucial for the successful implementation of ODHP. The use of oxygen as an oxidant in ODHP presents its own set of advantages and limitations. Oxygen is a cheap and abundant oxidant, but its use can lead to overoxidation and the formation of undesired byproducts such as carbon oxides. The presence of oxygen can also cause hotspots in the catalyst bed, leading to temperature control issues. To mitigate these challenges, the development of suitable catalysts and reactor designs is crucial for the successful implementation of ODHP. The specific challenges associated with using oxygen include the need for precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and the potential for combustion of the desirable dehydrogenation products. The specific challenges associated with using oxygen include the need for precise temperature control to prevent hotspots and the potential for coke formation, which can lead to catalyst deactivation.
      </English>
      <Chinese>
          当前丙烯生产方法，如蒸汽裂解和流化催化裂解，主要面临高能耗、丙烯选择性低以及对日益减少的石油储备的依赖等问题。丙烷氧化脱氢(ODHP)通过提供更节能的工艺和更高的丙烯选择性，解决了这些问题。然而，ODHP也存在其自身的优势和局限性，特别是在氧化剂选择方面。使用氧气作为氧化剂可能导致过度氧化和不希望的碳氧化物的形成，而使用分子氧虽然可以提高选择性，但成本也更高。使用氧气的具体挑战包括需要从空气中分离氧气，这可能消耗大量能源，以及过度氧化的风险，这会降低丙烯的产量。氧气是一种廉价且丰富的氧化剂，但其使用可能导致过度氧化和产生不希望的副产品，如碳氧化物。氧气的存在也可能导致催化剂床层中出现热点，从而引发温度控制问题。为了缓解这些挑战，开发合适的催化剂和反应器设计对于ODHP的成功实施至关重要。在ODHP中使用氧气作为氧化剂具有其自身的一系列优势和局限性。氧气是一种廉价且丰富的氧化剂，但其使用可能导致过度氧化和产生不希望的副产品，如碳氧化物。氧气的存在也可能导致催化剂床层中出现热点，从而引发温度控制问题。为了缓解这些挑战，开发合适的催化剂和反应器设计对于ODHP的成功实施至关重要。使用氧气的具体挑战包括需要精确控制温度以防止热点的形成，以及可能的燃烧，这会破坏所需的脱氢产物。使用氧气的具体挑战包括需要精确控制温度以防止热点的形成，以及可能的焦炭形成，这可能导致催化剂失活。
      </Chinese>
   </Question>
</Questions>
