<quotes>
[1] "Supported vanadia catalysts have attracted significant interest in recent decades due to their good catalytic performance in many redox reactions such as dehydrogenation and oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes to olefins, oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde, ammoxidation of aromatic hydrocarbons, and selective reduction of NOx."
[2] "The present work is aimed at a further study of the structure of VOx supported on alumina using both UV (244 nm) and visible (488 nm) excited Raman spectroscopy and especially the structure of supported VOx at extremely low surface density (down to 0.01 V/nm2)."
[3] "Two different aluminas, δ- and γ-Al2O3, were selected as the supports in order to investigate the influence of different alumina phases (environments) on the structure of surface VOx species."
[4] "The structure, distribution, and reducibility of surface VOx species on δ- and γ-Al2O3 are quite similar. This similarity is understandable since both δ- and γ-Al2O3 have a spinel structure with similar types (but different distribution) of surface hydroxyl groups, which are the bonding sites for VOx species on the aluminas."
[5] "Because of the resonance enhancement effect and the avoidance of fluorescence in UV Raman spectroscopy, UV Raman can provide structural information on VOx species at extremely low surface VOx density (down to 0.01 V/nm2), where the VOx is not detectable by visible Raman."
[6] "At higher surface VOx density, UV Raman shows higher sensitivity to isolated and less polymerized VOx species while visible Raman is more sensitive to highly polymerized VOx species and crystalline V2O5, which is explained in terms of a selective resonance enhancement effect as evidenced by UVvis DRS results."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. Vanadium oxide-based catalysts have been of great interest in recent decades due to their effectiveness in redox reactions like dehydrogenation and oxidative dehydrogenation of alkanes to olefins, oxidation of methanol to formaldehyde, ammoxidation of aromatic hydrocarbons, and selective reduction of NOx.
2. The study focused on examining the structure of vanadium oxide supported on alumina using both ultraviolet (UV) and visible light Raman spectroscopy, particularly at very low surface densities (down to 0.01 V/nm2).
3. The researchers chose two types of aluminas, δ- and γ-Al2O3, to study the impact of different alumina phases on the structure of surface vanadium oxide species.
4. Despite differences in the distribution of surface hydroxyl groups, the spinel structures of δ- and γ-Al2O3 led to similar structures, distributions, and reducibilities of surface vanadium oxide species.
5. Ultraviolet Raman spectroscopy provided valuable information on vanadium oxide species at extremely low surface densities, where visible Raman spectroscopy could not detect them.
6. At higher surface densities, ultraviolet Raman spectroscopy showed higher sensitivity to isolated and less polymerized vanadium oxide species, whereas visible Raman spectroscopy was more sensitive to highly polymerized vanadium oxide species and crystalline V2O5, this difference was explained by a selective resonance enhancement effect as evidenced by ultraviolet-visible diffuse reflectance spectroscopy results.
</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 近几十年来，由于范德华氧化物催化剂在许多氧化还原反应中的良好催化性能，如烷烃脱氢和烯烃氧化、甲醇氧化为甲醛、芳香烃氨氧化以及NOx的选择性还原，因此对范德华氧化物催化剂产生了巨大兴趣。
2. 研究重点是使用紫外（UV）和可见光激发拉曼光谱进一步研究铝酸盐支持下的VOx结构，并特别关注在极低表面密度（低至0.01 V/nm2）下支持的VOx的结构。
3. 为了研究不同铝酸盐相（环境）对表面VOx物种结构的影响，研究人员选择了两种类型的铝酸盐，δ-和γ-Al2O3作为支持体。
4. 尽管表面羟基分布不同，但由于δ-和γ-Al2O3均具有类似的立方晶格结构，表面VOx物种的结构、分布和可还原性相似。
5. 紫外光拉曼光谱为在极低表面密度下无法检测到的VOx物种提供了有价值的信息，而可见光拉曼光谱则无法检测到它们。
6. 在更高的表面密度下，紫外光拉曼光谱显示出对孤立且较少聚合的VOx物种的更高灵敏度，而可见光拉曼光谱则对高度聚合的VOx物种和结晶态V2O5更敏感。这种差异用紫外线可见光差分反射光谱结果中观察到的有选择性的共振增强效应进行了解释。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
