I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


JOURNAL
OF CATALYSIS
6,92-w (1966) On the Specific Activity of Platinum Catalysts
M. BOUDART,
A. ALDAG,
J. E. BENSON,
N. A. DOUGHARTY,
AND G. GIRVIN
HARKINS
From the Department of Chemical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, California Received January 25, 1966; revised February 17, 1966 The specific activity for hydrogenation of cyclopropane at 0C on platinum cata- lysts was found to be independent of platinum content on two different forms of alumina, independent of the nature of the support with alumina or silica gel, and almost the same for highly dispersed samples in which nearly every platinum atom is a surface atom as for a platinum foil. The difference between the highly dispersed samples and the others (sintered, less dispersed, foil) was a modest twofold change in specific activity,while the platinum specific surface area varied by more than four orders of magnitude.
In contradistinction,a very marked susceptibility to oxygen poisoning was found for the well-dispersed catalysts that was not observed for the other samples.
As atoms are put together to form metal- lic embryos, nuclei,and crystallites,how does the catalytic activity of the particles vary with their size? Is a minimum lattice exhibiting bulk properties required for, nor- mal catalytic behavior?
Does an optimum dimension exist beyond which catalytic ac- tivity of a crystallite will decline?
These are fundamental questions which have been asked many times over the past 40 years because they are intimately linked with theories of catalytic action, in particu- lar with the existence and nature of active centers. However, quite apart from the diffi- culty of preparing stable catalytic particles of known size, starting with the smallest ones, an answer to the question of specific catalytic activity had to await the develop- ment of methods of measurement of surface area. Indeed, the catalytic activity,for a valid comparison,must be referred to the number of exposed surface atoms of a speci- fied kind. Thus a convenient way to express * To whom queries concerning this paper should be sent: Present address: Department of Chemi- cal Engineering, Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. catalytic activity is by means of a turnover number equal to the number of reactant molecules converted per minute per cata- lytic site for given reaction conditions.
The first systematic investigations of the problem of specific catalytic activity were those of Boreskov and co-workers who were able to perfect a technique of measurement of the surface area of platinum catalysts by means of the selective chemisorption of hydrogen (1). With this necessary back- ground, they succeeded in showing that the specific activity of platinum in the oxida- tion of sulfur dioxide (2) and of hydrogen (3) varied by less than an order of magni- tude for platinum samples differing in their platinum specific surface area by four orders of magnitude,e.g., platinum sup- ported on silica gel, platinum sponge, wire,and gauze.
In the case of hydrogen- deuterium exchange at low temperature (4), an apparent exception to this lack of substantial variability of the specific ac- tivity of platinum was found for samples supported on silica gel. The enhanced activ- ity in this case was attributed to the inter- ference of the support, a complication which may be hard to avoid for certain reactions,as illustrated again by the recent work of 92
SPECIFIC ACTIVITY
OF PLATINUM
93 Sinfelt (5) on the hydrogenolysis of ethane over supported platinum.
In view of the far-reaching significance of the findings of Boreskov et al., it was decided to extend their work by taking ad- vantage of the extreme state of dispersion of platinum on q-alumina,a system which was not investigated by the Soviet workers.
Yet, from a large variety of studies involv- ing selective chemisorption of hydrogen (6,7, 8), carbon monoxide (9), and benzene (10)) as well as the methods of electron microscopy (11), light scattering
(I,%?),
and X-ray diffraction line-broadening
(IS),
there is general agreement on the fact that almost every platinum atom in a fresh sam- ple is a surface atom and that if crystal- lites of platinum are present on the alumina surface after reduction of the catalyst, their size is certainly less t,han 35 A (IS) and probably less than 15 A (16).
The platinum-alumina system appears to be well-suited to a study of the specific activity of platinum since the very small aggregates dispersed on a fresh catalyst can be made to grow by heat treatment at increasingly higher temperatures until their size can be measured by X-ray diffraction line-broadening (6, 14, 15, 16). Further- more, in the region where the platinum particles are too small to be detected by physical methods, a measure of the plati- num surface area may now be obtained readily by a titration method consisting of selective hydrogen adsorption on a surface platinum oxide (17).
As a matter of convenience, the hydro- genation of cyclopropane was then selected as the test reaction since, according to the literature (18, 19, LO), kinetic data could be readily gathered at a temperature low enough for parasitic contributions from the support to be negligible.
The present study thus concerns itself with the low-tempera- ture (0C) hydrogenation of cyclopropane to propane, catalyzed by a platinum foil and by various platinum catalysts on three different supports differing vastly in the average particle size of the metal. Addi- tional observations on the poisoning effect of oxygen complement this study of the specific activity of platinum.
EXPERIMENTAL
The catalysts used in this investigation are listed in Table
1. The samples sup-
ported on 17 alumina were supplied by Esso Research and Engineering Company.
The I alumina was prepared from @-alumina trihydrate (Davison Chemical Company) by calcining in air for 4 hr at 593C. The q-alumina powder was then impregnated with aqueous chloroplatinic acid solutions and calcined again in air at 593C for 4 hr.
These catalysts were obtained in the form of pellets. They were crushed lightly and sieved. For all runs with supported cata- lysts, the 48/100-mesh portions were used.
The samples supported on y alumina were obtained from Cyanamid-Ketjen
N.V. They
are commercial reforming catalysts and the method of their preparation is unknown.
They were supplied in the form of extru- date particles,which were crushed and sieved like the other samples.
The samples supported on silica gel were
TABLE
1
ACTIVITY
AXD
PLATINUM
SURFACE
AREA
OF
CATALYSTS
FOR
THE
0C
HYDROGENATION
OF
CycLopRop.4NE wt y0 Pt on catalyst Specific surface
ILP&
Activity in lrmole of platinum,expressed cyclopropane per min- in amole Hs/g sample ute per g sample Percentage dispersion
DC%)
0.3%
on 7 alumina
10.2
82.4
44
0. 3y0 on
alumina y
13.5
100.
59
0. 6y0 on
alumina y
33.5
186.
73
1.96%
on 9 alumina
97.0
637.
64 Same as above, sintered
11.5
44.0
7.6
4.3%
on silicagel
57.3
160.
17.
100% (foil)
0.55
1.4
0.0039
94
BOUDART,
ALDAG,
BENSON,
DOUGHARTY,
AND
HARKINS
prepared in our own laboratory following the method of Ciapetta and Hunter (21) using silica gel from Davison Chemical Company and chloroplatinic acid from Baker and Adamson.
Sintering of the sample of 2 wt % plati- num on 7 alumina was carried out in flow- ing hydrogen at 650C in a quartz tube.
The platinum foil used was 12.7 p in thickness.
It was pretreated by being washed in benzene, etched in aqua regia,and washed in distilled water. After being placed in the reactor,the foil was alter- nately exposed to static oxygen and pure hydrogen at 500C before being reduced in a manner similar to the supported catalysts.
The geometrical surface area of the foil sample (2.04 g) was 140 cm2.
The hydrogen used in this work was of electrolytic grade (Liquid Carbonic Cor- poration) purified by distillation in the Low Temperature Laboratory of the University of California or purchased from the Mathe- son Company.
All hydrogen was further purified by diffusion through a palladium membrane purifier manufactured by the Milton Roy Company.
Cyclopropane (99.5% minimum purity) obtained from the Matheson Company was purified fur- ther by passage over magnesium per- chlorat.e,followed by two bulb-to-bulb distillations at low temperature in which the first and last thirds of each distillation were discarded.
The oxygen used in the poisoning studies was research grade (99.9% minimum purity).
It was used as obtained from the Matheson Company without further treatment.
Rates of cyclopropane hydrogenation were measured in a glass recirculation sys- tem. The circulation loop was attached,through a trap cooled with liquid nitrogen,to a manifold pumped by a rotary mechani- cal pump and an oil-diffusion pump and,through a trap filled with porous gold pow- der, to a mercury manometer.
Weighed samples of the supported cata- lysts ranging from 15 to 500 mg were charged to the reactor consisting of a cylindrical chamber (approximately
1.5 cm
long and 2 cm in diameter) with a coarse grade fritted disc at its bottom to support the catalyst particles.
Standard activation treatment consisted of evacuation in situ for approximately 30 min at room tempera- ture and for 2-3 hr at 150C. The reactor chamber was then isolated from the recircu- lation loop and a hydrogen flow of 70-80 ml/ min at ambient conditions was started through the sample as the furnace tem- perature was increased slowly to 500C.
Reduction in flowing hydrogen was con- tinued for 12 hr, after which the catalyst cooled in hydrogen.
During the reduction and cooling, a downstream oil bubbler pre- vented the back-diffusion of oxygen and a liquid nitrogen cold trap prevented con- tamination by the oil vapor.
Hydrogen remaining in the preheater and catalyst chamber was used as a reactant. It was expanded into the evacuated portion of the circulation loop not directly connected to the manometer.
The section of tubing connected to the manometer served as part of a calibrated volume used for adjusting the amount of cyclopropane.
These react- ants were then circulated for premixing and for reaction by means of a magnetically driven,noncontaminating reciprocating pump developed for this and other studies and described elsewhere (22). This pump provided a circulation rate of 4-5 liter/min under reaction conditions in a system of l&liter total volume.
Conditions of operation were chosen to ensure differential reactor operation with less than
0.5% conversion
per pass. The catalyst particles were sufficiently small that effects due to heat and mass transfer limitations were negligible,according to the criteria of Weisz (2s) and Anderson (24). Details of the pertinent calculations can be found in ref. (25).
For reaction temperature control,the reactor and preheater (a 160-cm coil of 8-mm OD Pyrex tubing) were immersed in a stirred thermostated water bath. In all runs report.ed here, the reactor temperature was 0C.
All rates reported were measured with an initial cyclopropane partial pressure of 10 torr and an initial hydrogen: cyclopropane ratio in the range 4.6:1 to 4.8:1.
The mercury manometer was used only
SPECIFIC
ACTIVITY
OF PLATINUM
95 briefly for the initial pressure measure- ment,the reaction being monitored by sampling the gas phase with an Aerograph
XA-210
sampling valve, modified (25) for sampling under vacuum, followed by injec- tion of the sample into an Aerograph A-90- P gas chromatograph using helium as a carrier gas. The components (hydrogen,propylene,propane,and cyclopropane) were separated at 40C on a column of 20% dimethylsulfolane on 60/80-mesh fire- brick. The output of a thermal conductivity detector was potentiometrically recorded,and the peak heights were shown to be a quantitative measure of hydrocarbon con- centrations under reaction conditions (25).
Platinum surface areas for the supported catalysts were measured by means of the hydrogen titration technique developed by Benson and Boudart,with the apparatus described in their paper (17). The surface area is conveniently expressed in pmoles of hydrogen gas taken up per gram of sample.
The BET surface area of the platinum foil was measured in the same apparatus using krypton as the adsorbate at liquid nitrogen temperature. A surface area of 196 cmZ/g was calculated by assuming a cross section of 19.5A2 per krypton molecule
@W.
Those catalysts containing crystallites of a size amenable to the technique were sub- jected to X-ray line-broadening st,udies.
The conditions used were essentially identi- cal with those described by Adams et al.
(11). A sample of the catalyst powder was pressed into a depression in a glass slide and placed in a General Elect,ric XRD-5 diffractometer.
Copper K,radiation,fil- tered by nickel, was introduced through a 3 beam slit. A 0.1 receiving slit and a medium resolution Soller slit were used, and the counting rate was recorded as a func- tion of scanning angle. Corrections to the observed linewidths for instrumental broad- ening were made using the curves of Klug and Alexander (27).
RESULTS
Preliminary determination of an abso- lute blank showed that the recirculation system itself exhibited no detectable activ- ity.
Runs made with 150-200 mg of the v-alumina support showed no propane for- mation below 50C. Propylene formation over the g-alumina at 25C was detectable only after 80 min of reactor operation.
This was the highest temperature used for testing the activity of the supported plati- num, and, since most runs were at OC, the blank corrections for the support were com- pletely negligible.
No blank was performed with the silica gel support, which is known to be much more inert than alumina in the reactions of hydrocarbons.
Preliminary experiments also indicat,ed that the platinum-alumina catalysts would partially deactivate from run to run, losing approximately 15% of their initial activity.
All runs with the supported catalysts re- ported were thus made with fresh charges.
In spit,e of the difficulty in reproducing data from one catalyst charge to another, this procedure was considered satisfactory,if somewhat tedious.
The rate of hydrogenation of cyclopro- pane was found to be practically constant up to 50% conversion.
Measurements of initial rates are therefore very easy to ob- tain by extrapolation of the curve of amount of propane versus time.
Initial rates, expressed in pmoles of cyclopropnne per minute per gram of catalyst, at OC, at the initial pressures mentioned earlier: are tabulated in Table 1 and plotted in Fig. 1.
These initial rates under t,hese specified standard conditions are referred to as t.he activity.
Under the best conditions,the activity from run to run wit,h a new sample of the same catalyst was good. The arithmetic average activity for several runs is re- ported in Table 1 for each supported cata- lyst.
Some more pronounced deviations from run to run may be attributed to the great sensitivity of the highly dispersed catalysts to poisoning.
The poisoning was studied in separate runs reported in Table 2. In one method of poisoning,a tot,al of about 400 pmoles of oxygen was introduced into the circulating hydrogen-cyclopropane mixture during a rate measurement. This quantity,which is much larger than the amount required to 96
BOUDART,
ALDAG,
BENSON,
DOUGHARTY,
AND
HARKINS
800- 5 600- $i
E
F
1 r 400 - %
I
0 0
0.3 % Pt ON -Al203
@
1.96
@
1.96
(SINTERED)
q
0.3%
Pt ON y-Al203 v
0.6
q
4.3%
Pt ON SiO,
FIG. 1. Activity
as a function of platinum surface area,
TABLE
2
SUSCEPTIBILITY
OF PLATINUM
CATALYSTS
TO
OXYGEN
POISONING
Activity rmole cyclopropane per minute per grsm sample Catalyst Before After poisoning poisoning
0.30/, on TJ-A.zO
82.4
1.2
1.96%
on Y+IO sintered t
44.
26.1
4.30/, on SiOz
160,
93.4
Platinum foil
1.4
0.75
cover the surface of the platinum with a monolayer,was usually introduced in two doses. First a smaller dose of 80 pmoles was introduced,followed later by a dose of 300 pmoles.
The second poisoning procedure, yielding the rates reported in Table 2, consisted of prepoisoning the catalyst by circulating an identical amount of hydrogen-oxygen mix- ture over the catalyst.
The loop and cata- lyst were held at 0C and outgassed to 1V torr before fresh hydrogen and cyclopro- pane were added for a normal run. The results of the two methods were in qualita- tive agreement. Pressure changes during the prepoisoning experiments suggested that water formation was quant,itative and that the supported catalyst retained all of the water formed.
Also reported in Table 1 are the values of platinum surface areas and a measure of platinum dispersion, defined as the ratio of platinum surface atoms titrated by hydro- gen to the total number of platinum atoms in the sample. This platinum dispersion can be expressed as a percentage, D. In the calculation of D, use was made of the previously established stoichiometry of the titration (17) Pt-O(surface) + $Hz ---f Pt-H(surface) + Hz0 according to which each molecule of hydro- gen taken up corresponds to 2/3 of a plati- num surface site. To convert the krypton surface area of the platinum foil to a num-
SPECIFIC
ACTIVITY
OF
PLATINUM
97 ber of surface atoms, a site density of
1.1 x 10 cm-? was assumed (8).
DISCUSSION
As regards activity,there is a clear dis- tinction between the platinum samples with a high dispersion and the others. The former comprise fresh catalysts supported on y or 7 alumina.
The latter include the sintered sample on 7j alumina,the silica-gel- supported catalyst,and the platinum foil.
As shown by the two st,raight lines pass- ing through the origin of Fig. 1, the specific .activity,i.e., the ratio of activity to plati- num surface area, is approximately a con- stant in both categories. The slope of the line, multiplied by the factor 2/3,is actually a turnover number, N, a convenient meas- ure of specific activity.
It is equal to 4.3 per minute for the cat.alysts with high D,and is equal to 2.0 per minute for the other supported catalysts. The value of N for the platinum foil is almost the same, namely
1.7 per minute.
Thus,from the viewpoint of activity,there is a difference, by a factor of 2, be- tween the two groups, but this is an insig- nificant variation relative to the large change in dispersion, D. The difference in the two groups in their susceptibility to poisoning is, however, very marked. For the fresh catalysts well dispersed on alumina,the activity after oxygen treatment was only about one-hundredth of its original value. By contrast,oxygen poisoning re- duced by only about 50% the activity of the sintered platinum-alumina,the plat- inized silica gel, and the foil (Table 2).
Besides the difference in degree of disper- sion as measured by D, another notable difference between the two groups is pro- vided by the X-ray data. No X-ray pattern was obtained on the well-dispersed samples,while X-ray line-broadening suggested a mean platinum particle size of 135 * 30 ii for the sintered sample of Pt/v alumina and 525 + 5OA in the case of Pt/SiO,.
Since the dispersion, D, is 7.6% and 17%, respec- tively, it appears that there must be a very wide distribution of particle size in both samples if the X-ray data and the values of D are to be reconciled.
Yet, the turnover number was practically the same in the two cases, as well as for the foil.
It must be concluded that the observa- tions of Boreskov et al. concerning the lack of sensitivity of the specific activity of platinum in the oxidation of sulfur oxide and hydrogen and (with one exception) in the hydrogen-deuterium exchange are con- firmed and considerably strengthened by the present findings.
Indeed, it is the first time tha,t the specific activity of the highly dispersed platinum-alumina system has been included in a study of this kind. It is remarkable that the turnover numbers on samples where almost every atom is a sur- face atom differ only by a factor of 2 from the turnover numbers on catalysts where bulk metal is clearly present.
A sharp difference in activity can be per- ceived only on the catalysts poisoned with water.
This must be connected with the dispersion and the nature of the support. As shown elsewhere (17, 28)) an oxygenated platinum surface can be cleaned by hydro- gen at room temperature or below. The fact that this cleaning is quantitative,within experimental error, is the basis for the hy- drogen titration technique for obtaining the platinum surface area. It follows that a platinum surface exposed to oxygen around room temperature will be cleaned by hydro- gen also around room temperature.
The cleaning may not be complete, as indicated by Tuckers recent work (29).
Tucker,using the low-energy electron diffraction technique of studying gas adsorption on platinum surfaces, confirms that hydrogen immediately removes oxygen structures from a (111) Pt face; but he then observes that there remains on the surface a new scattering entity,the nature of which was not elucidated. It was suggested that water might be responsible for the unknown structure observed.
That the platinum surface of our cata- lysts is not completeIy clean after exposure to oxygen in the presence of hydrogen, at OC, is compatible with the observations on the reduction in activity by one-half for the second group of catalyst,s. But a reduction in activity of the highly dispersed catalysts by two orders of magnitude requires a more 98
BOUDART,
ALDAG,
BENSON,
DOUGHARTY,
AND
HARKIXS
subtle explanation.
Unless one can justify the coverage of 50% of the active platinum sites in one case, and 99% coverage of the platinum sites in another case, by the water formed,one must invoke some special active centers. Such a conclusion seems in- compatible with the almost constant spe- cific activity observed on the unpoisoned catalysts.
Since the effect disappears with a moderate amount of sintering,as shown by the data in Table 2, it is believed that the water formed at 0C stays on the sup- port in t,he immediate vicinity of a platinum site and reduces the activity by some sort of interaction.
Efforts to extend the range of platinum/ q-alumina activity measurements to lower concentrations of platinum were made in addition to the experiments discussed above.
Catalysts containing
0.05 and 0.1 wt %
platinum were unexpectedly low in activity.
In view of the great sensitivity to poisoning of the fresh 0.3 wt % platinum-on-alumina catalyst and the reduced precision of the measurements on the low platinum samples,there must be some doubt as to whether this observation is conclusive. However, the sat- isfactory nature of the results obtained with the catalyst containing only three times as much platinum prevents us from discarding the possibility that at very low platinum concentrations,platinum-alumina interac- tions may again be reducing activity,even in the absence of oxygen (water) poisoning.
In conclusion, we have found a remark- able lack of sensitivity of the turnover number to crystal size, nature of support,or details of preparation.
It is emphasized that this relative constancy of specific ac- tivity,observed by Boreskovs school and now by ourselves, is not expected generally.
Indeed, our results on poisoning immedi- ately reveal a striking difference between two classes of platinum catalysts.
This constancy of activity would only be ex- pected for what might be termed facile re- actions,for which the majority of sites possesses ample activity under the condi- tions of operation.
These facile reactions are those that fail to sense the nonuniformi- ties of solid surfaces that become important under more probing or demanding circum- stances, in particular,when stereospecificity is involved or when the reaction is difficult from the viewpoint of reactivity.
An exam- ple of a difficult reaction (where nonuni- formity of the surface has been generally invoked) is the synthesis of ammonia (S1),where the lack of reactivity of molecular nitrogen provides a difficult step. A case where difficulty of reaction and possibly where stereospecificity may come into play is provided by the study of Hightower and Kemball of the reactions of p-xylene with deuterium (Sd). In that case an effect of the support on platinum activity was apparent.
In future work it may be important,then,to distinguish between facile and demanding wactions from the viewpoint just discussed and we propose that a facile reaction may be defined as one for which the specific activity of the catalyst is prac- tically independent of its mode of prepa- ration.
On this basis, it might be argued that the choice of the facile hydrogenation of cyclo- propane was ill-advised since it was rather an undiscriminating probe of catalytic ac- tivity.
In spite of this drawback, it appears that another consequence of our data is to support the view (SO, SS) that platinum- on-alumina is essentially reduced to the metal in spite of the fact that metal crys- tallites have thus far eluded all physical attempts at identification,for the specific activity of the Pt-Al,O,(y or 7) systems was found to be almost the same as that of bulk platinum.
It appears, therefore,that the platinum-alumina system is indeed a very interesting one for the further testing of the fundamental questions raised in the introduction.
Further work on this catalyst with more demanding reactions ought to be very revealing.* *As this paper is going to press, Professor Sel- wood kindly brings to our attention a study by
T. A. Darling
and R. L. Moss which will appear in the February issue of J. Catalysis r5, 111 (1966)l.
These authors report data on a series of Pt-SiO,samples used as catalysts for the gas-phase hydro- genation of benzene at 25C. The dispersion of the metal was varied,as in our work,by sintering.
For catalysts fired up to 500C and differing in their percentage dispersion by almost two orders
SPECIFIC ACTIVITY
OF PLATINUM
99


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Compare and contrast the noble metal-based catalysts (particularly Platinum) and metal oxide-based catalysts (such as CrOx, gallium, indium, vanadium, zinc, and molybdenum oxides) used in the nonoxidative dehydrogenation of light olefins. Discuss their compositions, effectiveness, industrial applications, recent developments, and potential advantages in the field.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 