element not found
element not found
Publishing
Search
Advanced
Network access provided by: Tianjin University
SCHEDULED MAINTENANCE
Maintenance work is planned from 21:00 BST on Tuesday 20th August 2024 to 21:00 BST on Wednesday 21st August 2024, and on Thursday 29th August 2024 from 11:00 to 12:00 BST.
During this time the performance of our website may be affected - searches may run slowly, some pages may be temporarily unavailable, and you may be unable to log in or to access content. If this happens, please try refreshing your web browser or try waiting two to three minutes before trying again.
We apologise for any inconvenience this might cause and thank you for your patience.

Issue 28, 2022
Previous Article Next Article
From the journal:
Nanoscale

Advanced design and development of catalysts in propane dehydrogenation
Fuwen Yang, a   Jie Zhang, *a   Zongbo Shi,b   Jinwei Chen, ac   Gang Wang,a   Junjie He,a   Junyu Zhao,a   Runsheng Zhuob  and  Ruilin Wang*ac  
Author affiliations

Abstract
Propane dehydrogenation (PDH) is an industrial technology for direct propylene production, which has received extensive attention and realized large-scale application. At present, the commercial Pt/Cr-based catalysts suffer from fast deactivation and inferior stability resulting from active species sintering and coke depositing. To overcome the above problems, several strategies such as the modification of the support and the introduction of additives have been proposed to strengthen the catalytic performance and prolong the robust stability of Pt/Cr-based catalysts. This review firstly gives a brief description of the development of PDH and PDH catalysts. Then, the advanced research progress of supported noble metals and non-noble metals together with metal-free materials for PDH is systematically summarized along with the material design and active origin as well as the existing problems in the development of PDH catalysts. Furthermore, the review also emphasizes advanced synthetic strategies based on novel design of PDH catalysts with improved dehydrogenation activity and stability. Finally, the future challenges and directions of PDH catalysts are provided for the development of their further industrial application.
This article is part of the themed collection: Recent Review Articles
You have access to this article
Please wait while we load your content...
About
Cited by
Related
Download this article
PDF format
Article HTML
Article information
DOI
https://doi.org/10.1039/D2NR02208G
Article type Review Article
Submitted 22 Apr 2022
Accepted 26 Jun 2022
First published 27 Jun 2022
Download
Citation
Nanoscale, 2022,14, 9963-9988
BibTex
EndNote
MEDLINE
ProCite
ReferenceManager
RefWorks
RIS
Permissions
Request permissions
Social activity
Tweet
Share
Search articles by author
Fuwen Yang
Jie Zhang
Zongbo Shi
Jinwei Chen
Gang Wang
Junjie He
Junyu Zhao
Runsheng Zhuo
Ruilin Wang

Spotlight
Advertisements
rsc.org Journals, books & databases
Home
About us
Membership & professional community
Campaigning & outreach
Journals, books & databases
Teaching & learning
News & events
Locations & contacts
Careers
Awards & funding
Advertise
Help & legal
Privacy policy
Terms & conditions
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
© Royal Society of Chemistry 2024
Registered charity number: 207890
MarinLit
More
For Members
For Librarians
Subscribe
RSS Feeds
Blogs
Chemistry World
Education in Chemistry
Open Access
Historical Collection