element not found

ACS CatalysisVol 6/Issue 2Article
Cite
Share
Jump to
Expand
REVIEWNovember 24, 2015
Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Activation
Marc MoselageJie LiLutz Ackermann*
View Author Information
View Author Information
Open PDF
Abstract
Catalytic C–H activation has emerged as a powerful tool for sustainable syntheses. In the recent years, notable success was achieved with the development of cobalt-catalyzed C–H functionalizations with either in situ generated or single-component cobalt-complexes under mild reaction conditions. Herein, recent progress in the field of organometallic cobalt-catalyzed C–H activation is reviewed until November 2015.
This publication is licensed under the terms of your institutional subscription. Request reuse permissions.
Copyright © 2015 American Chemical Society
Subjects
what are subjects
Arylation
Catalysts
Cobalt
Hydrocarbons
Indoles
Keywords
what are keywords
C−H Activation
Cobalt
C−C Formation
C−Het Formation
Homogeneous Catalysis
1 Introduction
In the recent years, considerable advances have been achieved in transition-metal-catalyzed C–H functionalization, thereby characterizing this research area as an increasingly viable toolbox for selective C–C and C–X bond-forming reactions. (1) Thus, C–H functionalization processes can significantly simplify the synthesis of pharmaceuticals, natural products, agrochemicals, polymers, and feedstock commodity chemicals. (2) Until recently, the majority of catalyzed C–H functionalization was achieved employing precious second- and third-row transition metals. (3) The development of catalysts based on the naturally more abundant and, hence, cost-efficient 3d transition metal complexes, represents an attractive alternative. (4) As a result, the use of inexpensive first-row transition-metal catalysts for C–C transformations has gained considerable recent momentum. In this context, rather environmentally benign cobalt complexes bear great potential for applications in homogeneous catalysis. In 1941, Karash and Fields disclosed the cobalt-catalyzed homocoupling of Grignard reagents. (5) Subsequent to these pioneering findings, 70 years of research has turned cobalt into one of the most promising metals for future use in homogeneous catalysis, with important applications among others in the hydroformylation, (6) or the Phausen–Khand reaction. (7) Given the success of precious 4d and 5d transition metals with d8 or d10 electron configuration, numerous studies have recently been undertaken to explore easily accessible cobalt complexes for C–H activation chemistry. Yet, a notable challenge is constituted by the fact that the electronic properties of the 3d transition metal cobalt significantly differ from those of 4d or 5d homologues in terms of electronegativity (Figure 1) and spin orbit couplings, among others. (8)
Figure 1
Figure 1. Electronegativities of Group 8, 9, and 10 elements according to the Pauling scale.
The reduced electronegativity of cobalt as compared to the homologous group 9 elements translates into more nucleophilic organometallic cobalt intermediates which allow for unprecedented reaction pathways in transition-metal catalyzed C–H activations as well as significantly improved positional and chemo-selectivities. Herein, we summarize the progress in stoichiometric and catalytic organometallic C–H activation (9) with cost-effective cobalt complexes until autumn 2015. C–H functionalizations by outer-sphere radical-type reaction manifolds are not covered herein. (10)
2 Stoichiometric C–H Activation
As to the elementary step of C–H cobaltation, Klein and co-workers isolated the cyclometalated cobalt complex 2 by treating azobenzene (1) with [Co(CH3)(PMe3)4] (3) (Scheme 1). (11) The cyclometalation process was proposed to proceed via coordination of the Lewis basic directing group with loss of one PMe3 ligand, along with oxidative addition of the cobalt(I) species into the C–H bond and reductive elimination of methane to give the cyclometalated species 2. In contrast, replacing the cobalt(I) complex by [Co(C2H4)(PMe3)3] did not lead to the desired cyclometalation. In subsequent studies, Klein and co-workers showed that various arenes 1–16, containing phosphorus, (12, 13) nitrogen, (14) oxygen, (15) or sulfur (16) donor groups also form cyclocobaltated complexes 2–17. The cyclometalation was not restricted to the formation of five-membered cobaltacycles, but the formation of six-membered complex 13 and even less favorable four-membered cobaltacycle 15 could be realized as well.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Cyclocobaltated Compounds by Stochiometric C–H or C–F Cleavage Using [Co(CH3)(PMe3)4] (3)
When [Co(CH3)(PMe3)4] (3) was reacted with pentafluoro-benzophenone (16), the site-selective cyclometalation was observed at the electron-deficient fluorinated arene, thus indicating the ortho-C–F cleavage being favored over the ortho C–H metalation. (15) The formation of stoichiometrically metalated complexes was thereby well established. Despite these undisputed advances, further C–C, C–N, or C–X forming functionalizations remained rare in the following years.
A notable exception was constituted by the transformation of the strained 4-membered cyclocobaltated complex 15 (Scheme 2). (12) Under an atmosphere of ambient CO, insertion of CO into the C–Co bond yielded the acyl complex 18, albeit in rather low yield.
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Insertion of CO into a C–Co Bond
When complex 18 was further exposed to CO, a cobalt carbonyl complex was formed, while the C–Co bond of the 5-membered metallacycle remained intact. (11) Several other manipulations of the cyclometalated complexes with, for instance, alkyl iodides or ethylene, led to a variety of cobalt complexes, while the C–Co was not cleaved here.
3 Catalytic C–H Activation
3.1 Early Examples
Murahashi elegantly unraveled a cobalt-catalyzed carbonylative cyclizations of azobenzene (1) or aldimines to indazolones 19 (Scheme 3), (17, 18) which in more general terms represent early examples of chelation-assisted C–H functionalization reactions. Though this cobalt-catalyzed process indicated the potential of cobalt complexes for C–H functionalizations, further applications were largely limited by the rather forcing reaction conditions, that is a reaction temperature of 190 °C at a pressure of 150 atm.
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Cobalt-Catalyzed Carbonylative Cyclization of Azobenzene 1
3.2 Addition Reactions
3.2.1 Hydroarylation Reactions
The development of modern cobalt-catalyzed C–H functionalization remained somewhat dormant, until Kisch and co-workers reported, in 1994, the first cobalt-catalyzed hydroarylation of alkynes 20 using a cobalt(I) complex featuring a labile N2 ligand (Scheme 4). (19) Here, the active catalyst was generated via substitution of the N2 ligand by the Lewis-basic azobenzene substrate 1. Alternatively, [CoH(H2)(PMe3)3] was also successfully employed as the precatalyst.
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Tolane (20a)
Based on Kisch’s work, the development of cobalt-catalyzed hydroarylations of alkynes and olefins gained a significant momentum during the last five years, especially through the elegant work of Yoshikai. Thus, Yoshikai and co-workers devised a ternary catalytic system consisting of CoBr2, a phosphine ligand (PMePh2) and a stoichiometric reductant (MeMgCl), which efficiently catalyzed the hydroarylation of alkynes 20 with 2-arylpyridines 22 to yield the desired products 23 at lower catalyst loadings (Scheme 5a). (20) On the basis of the work of Ackermann on C-2-selective C–H functionalizations on heteroarenes using a removable pyrimidyl directing group, (21) the hydroarylation of alkynes 20 with indoles 24 and benzimidazoles 25 was realized by low-valent cobalt catalysis at ambient reaction temperature in a site-selective manner (Scheme 5b). (22)
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Alkynes 20
Imines also turned out to be powerful directing groups. The additions of aryl ketimines 28 or aldimines 29 to internal alkynes were achieved by a catalytic system comprising of CoBr2, a phosphine ligand, a Grignard reagent, and pyridine. (23) After acidic hydrolysis, diarylacetylenes 20 afforded the corresponding aromatic ketones 30a–d (Scheme 6a) and aldehydes 31 (Scheme 6b), while the hydrolysis of alkenylated imines 32 with alkyl substituents on the alkene led to a cyclization, furnishing benzofulvene derivatives 33 and 33′ (Scheme 6c). (23, 24) It is noteworthy that the hydroarylation of unsymmetrical dialkyl-substituted alkynes proceeded with synthetically useful levels of regio control. Furthermore, Petit and coworkers recently employed a low-valent cobalt catalyst for hydroarylations in the absence of Grignard reagents. (24b)
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation with Aryl Ketimines 28 and Aldimines 29
The proposed catalytic cycle of the cobalt-catalyzed hydroarylations is initiated by an ill-defined low-valent cobalt complex, generated from the cobalt(II) precatalyst and an excess t-BuCH2MgBr (Scheme 7). Precoordination of the alkyne 20 to the active cobalt species is followed by oxidative addition of the ortho C–H bond in intermediate 34 to give the cobalt complex 35. Intramolecular hydrocobaltation of complex 35 and subsequent reductive elimination of the intermediate 36 furnish the desired product and regenerate the cobalt catalyst. (23, 25) In the case of unsymmertrical alkynes 20, the C–C bond formation takes predominantly place at the less hindered acetylenic site. This regioselectivity can be rationalized in terms of significant steric interactions exerted by the cobalt center within the elementary step of migratory insertion. The reason as to why stoichiometric amounts of Grignard reagents are required beyond the reduction of the cobalt precursor is as of yet not fully understood.
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Internal Alkynes 20
Exploiting the differences in the inherent kinetic acidities is another viable approach to perform site-selective C–H functionalizations of heteroaromatic compounds. Thus, Yoshikai and co-workers developed a cobalt-catalyzed syn-addition of (benz)oxazoles 37 and thiazoles 38 onto internal alkynes 20 via C–H functionalization with high chemo-, site- and stereoselectivities (Scheme 8). (26, 27)
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Additions of (a) Azoles 37 or (b) Thiazoles 38 to Alkynes 20
Notably, the hydroarylation proceeded not only with arenes but also with olefins via vinylic C–H activation. (28) Thus, dihydropyridine derivatives 41 were prepared by annulations of α,β-unsaturated imines 42 (Scheme 9). Related to similar reactions of this type by rhodium(I) catalysis, (29, 30) the mechanism was proposed to proceed by oxidative C–H activation/alkenylation followed by 6π-electrocyclization of the key azatriene intermediate. (28)
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Cobalt-Catalyzed Annulations with α,β-Unsaturated Imines 42
On the basis of the remarkably high efficacy of the alkyne hydroarylations, Nakamura and Yoshikai succeeded in developing analogous hydroarylations of generally more challenging alkenes 43, again using a low-valent cobalt-catalyst. (31) Hence, Nakamura and co-workers reported on the hydroarylation of alkenes 43 with benzamides 44 (Scheme 10).
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkene Hydroarylation with Benzamides 44
Meanwhile, the Yoshikai group established hydroarylations of styrenes 43 giving selectively linear or branched adducts largely by the judicious choice of either a phosphine or a N-heterocyclic carbene (NHC) ligand (Figure 2), respectively. (32)
Figure 2
Figure 2. NHC preligands utilized for cobalt-catalyzed C–H funtionalizations.
Thus, a catalytic system consisting of CoBr2, IMesHCl (46a) as a NHC precursor and neo-pentylmagnesium bromide afforded the linear alkylated products 47 with moderate to good selectivities, as depicted in Scheme 11a. (32)
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. Hydroarylation of Alkenes with Linear Selectivity
The selectivity also depended on the electronic features of the substrate. For example, when 4-trifluoromethylphenylpyridine (22a) was employed, both catalytic systems delivered the branched adduct as the major product 47aa′. Also the use of 2-vinylnaphtalene (43b) significantly decreased the selectivity for the linear addition.
Besides styrene derivatives 43, vinylsilanes 43c as well as alkyl-substituted alkenes 43d proved applicable for hydroarylations with linear selectivity. In the case of vinylsilanes 43c, 1,10-phenantroline turned out to be the ligand of choice for the reaction with ketimine 28e (Scheme 11b). (33) The addition of N-pyrimidylindole to vinylsilane was achieved in a similar fashion (not shown). When an aliphatic olefin, such as 43d, was used, the best yield was obtained with neocuproine (2,9-dimethyl-1,10-phenantroline) as the ligand and Me3SiCH2MgCl as the stoichiometric reductant, which gave the alkylated product 48ed in 68% yield (Scheme 11c). (33)
In contrast to the linear-selective hydroarylation, a protocol for the preparation of branched products would arguably be more valuable in terms of stereoselectivity. A catalytic system based on CoBr2, a phosphine ligand and Me3SiCH2MgCl allowed for the branched-selective addition of arylpyridines as well as PMP-protected imines to styrenes 43 (Scheme 12a,b). (25, 32) The catalytic system showed a broad substrate scope with good to excellent selectivities. When exploring aldimines 29 as the substrates, a substituent at the ortho position was necessary to prevent 2-fold hydroarylation (Scheme 12b). (25, 34) Interestingly, the double functionalization did not occur with ketimines 28 displaying increased steric bulk (Scheme 12c). (25, 35)
Scheme 12
Scheme 12. Branched-Selective Hydroarylation of Alkenes 43
Experiments with pentadeuterophenylpyridine revealed a H/D exchange between the ortho-positions of the arene and the olefinic C–H bonds to take place prior to the C–C formation. A mechanism addressing these findings was proposed (Scheme 13), (25) in which a reversible oxidative addition of the in situ-generated cobalt catalyst into the ortho-C–H bond provides intermediate 50. Thereafter, migratory insertion of the styrene into the Co–H bond leads to either the linear 51 or the branched intermediate 51′. Finally, irreversible reductive elimination governs the regioselectivity and furnishes either the linear or branched alkylated arene.
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. Proposed Catalytic Cycles for the Branched- and Linear-Selective Hydroarylations of Styrenes 43a
The first example of an intramolecular cobalt-catalyzed hydroarylation of alkenes via C–H activation at the C-2 position of indoles, was reported by Yoshikai and co-workers (Scheme 14). (36a) The reaction allowed for the direct transformation of indole derivatives 52 and 53 into dihydropyrroloindoles 54 or tetrahydropyridoindoles 55 under mild reaction conditions. Interestingly, the ring size of the formed product did not only depend on the length of the tether, but was also controlled by the steric properties of the NHC ligand. Thus, the cobalt catalyst derived from the NHC IPr promoted the regioselective cyclizations to afford tetrahydropyridoindoles 55, whereas the SIMes analogue inverted the regioselectivity toward the formation of dihydropyrroloindole 54.
Scheme 14
Scheme 14. Cyclization of Indoles Bearing Olefin Tethers (rr: Regioisomeric Ratio)
Although the scope with homoallyl and bis(homoallyl) indoles was rather moderate, the study represented a proof of concept for a regiodivergent cobalt catalysis. When a methylene cyclohexenyl indole was submitted to the reaction conditions, the product 55a bearing a bicyclic [3.3.1]-moiety was isolated in 43% yield. The cyclization with homoallyl indoles delivered the six-membered ring compound as the major product 55b with just minor amounts of the seven-membered product. This observation illustrated that the regioselectivity was strongly influenced by the steric properties of the NHC ligand, while a dependence on the tether length was also of relevance. Implementing ketamine-assisted hydroarylations of alkenes, a tandem isomerization/hydroarylation sequence proved viable as well. (36b)
Addition reactions with low-valent cobalt catalysts were not restricted to alkynes and alkenes. (37) Indeed, aziridines 56 proved likewise applicable, yielding β-aryl amines 57 (Scheme 15a). (37a) The reaction displayed a broad substrate scope with excellent site- and regioselectivities in moderate to good yields. Moreover, reaction conditions were devised for powerful hydroarylations of aromatic aldimines 29 (Scheme 15b). (37b)
Scheme 15
Scheme 15. Alkyation of Aryl Pyridines with Aziridines 56 (a) and Aldimines (b)
In this context, it is noteworthy that Matsunaga/Kanai and co-workers developed unusual cobalt-catalyzed remote C-4-alkylations (38) of pyridines with styrenes, occurring in a branched-selective fashion (Scheme 16). (39)
Scheme 16
Scheme 16. Cobalt-Catalyzed C-4-Selective Alkylation of Pyridine (58)
Very recently, the first enantioselective hydroaralytion of styrenes 43 with indoles 60 was disclosed by Yoshikai. (40) A chiral phophoramidate ligand 61 delivered the branched alkylated products in moderate to good yields with remarkable levels of enantioselectivity (Scheme 17). Among various mono- and diphosphine ligands, the phosphoramidate 61 gave best results. Furthermore, yields and enantioselectivities strongly depended on the substitution pattern on the N-position of the indole. While methyl, tosyl, and acetyl groups gave unsatisfactory yields and low enantioselectivities (not shown), the N-Boc protected indoles 60a-c delivered optimal results. The substrate scope included a range of styrene derivatives 43 that gave the branched alkylated indoles 62 with good enantioselectivities.
Scheme 17
Scheme 17. Enantioselective Hydroarylation of Alkenes 43
3.2.2 Hydroacylation Reactions
The first cobalt-catalyzed hydroacylations were developed by Vinogradov (41) (Scheme 18a) and later Brookhart. (42, 43) The latter protocol utilized the cobalt(I) complex 63 for the intermolecular hydroacylation of vinyl silane 43e with aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes 64 (Scheme 18b). (42, 43) The reaction proceeded under mild reaction conditions in excellent yields with low catalyst loading.
Scheme 18
Scheme 18. Intramolecular and Intermolecular Hydroacylations
Despite the enormous potential of this catalytic system at this time, the hydroacylation was limited to vinyl silanes. Attemps to perform hydroacylations with ethylene using [Cp*Co(C2H2)2] as the catalyst did not deliver the desired ketone. In contrast, recent progress in the field of cobalt-catalyted hydroacylation was achieved by Dong and Yoshikai. (44-46) Hence, Dong and co-workers developed hydroacylations of aromatic and aliphatic aldehydes 64 with 1,3-dienes 66 (Scheme 19). (44) This transformation turned out to be challenging with respect to regio- and diastereoselectivity. First, depending on the regioselectivity, the hydroacylation could occur at the C-3 position of the diene, as shown by Krische (47) and Ryu (48) for ruthenium catalysis, as well as at the C-1 position. Second, the position of the second double bond could lead to β,γ or γ,δ unsaturated ketones. Third, in the case of β,γ unsaturated systems, the configuration of the double bond had to be controlled. After optimizing the reaction conditions, a catalytic system consisting of the cobalt(II) complex 67 bearing a modified dppp ligand 68 and catalytic amounts of In and InBr3 to generate the catalytically active Co(I) species enabled the C-1-selective hydroacylation of aromatic aldehyds with 1,3-dienes in a highly selective 1,4-addition manner and very good Z-selectivity. (44) The broad scope with different aryl aldehydes 64 and dienes 66 highlighted the synthetic utility of this catalyst. When using aliphatic aldehydes, the selectivity between β,γ and γ,δ unsaturated ketones significantly dropped. However, when the bis-aryl diphosphane ligand 68 was replaced by a more electron-donating bis-cyclohexyl diphosphane ligand, γ,δ unsaturated ketone 69aa′ was obtained in very good yields and high selectivity.
Scheme 19
Scheme 19. Hydroacylation of Aldehydes with 1,3-Dienes*
Scheme [a][Co(dcpe)I2] (5.0 mol %), In (20 mol %), InBr3 (5.0 mol %), DCE/EtOAc (3:1), 50 °C, 20–24 h; dcpe = 1,2-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)ethane.
Scheme *Z/E selectivity >20:1, unless otherwise noted.
As mechanistic experiments disfavor a more traditional C–H activation pathway, as earlier proposed by Kisch (19) and Brookhart, (41-43) it was suggested that this reaction proceeds via an oxidative cyclization of cobalt(I) species 70, yielding a π-allyl complex 71, which then isomerizes either by 1,2- or 1,4-addition to the five- or seven-membered cobaltacycle 72 or 72′, respectively. β-H elimination to 73 and 73′, followed by reductive elimination delivered either β,γ- or γ,δ- unsaturated ketones 69 and 69′ (Scheme 20). The proposed mechanism also provides a rationale for the observed Z-selectivity in case of a 1,4-addition, as the formation of the cobaltacycle 72 requires a cis-olefin geometry.
Scheme 20
Scheme 20. Proposed Catalytic Cycles for the Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroacylation of Dienes
A recent report by Yoshikai and co-workers documented the hydroacylation of simple unactivated alkenes. (46) In this work, terminal alkenes 43 were hydroacylated with benzaldimines 74 bearing a picolyl-directing (49) group (Scheme 21). (46) Optimization of the cobalt source, ligand, catalytic reductant and solvent revealed a system consisting of CoBr2, the ferrocenyl bisphosphine ligand dippf 75 and Zn in acetonitrile to give the optimal results. The catalytic system proved suitable for aryl and alkyl alkenes 43 and allowed for the use of a large range of substituted benzaldimines 74 with very good yields and good linear selectivity under mild reaction conditions. Limitations occurred when using aryl benzaldimines 74 bearing an ortho substituent on the arene. Likewise, further substitution on the pyridine ring led to a significant decrease in efficacy, whereas the hydroacylation with aliphatic aldehydes could not be realized.
Scheme 21
Scheme 21. Hydroacylation of Alkenesa
Scheme aLinear to branched (l/b) ratio >20:1, unless otherwise noted.
The catalytic cycle of this reaction was proposed to commence by oxidative addition of the catalytically active cobalt(I) species 77 into the C–H bond of the aldimine 74 leading to intermediate 78 (Scheme 22). Migratory insertion of the olefin into the Co–H bond then occurs and leads to intermediates 79. Reductive elimination finally delivers the product 80 and regenerates the active catalyst 77.
Scheme 22
Scheme 22. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for Hydroacylation of Olefins 43
Beyond the intermolecular hydroacylation, Yoshikai and co-workers discovered an enantioselective intramolecular hydroacylation with a chiral diphosphine ligand which was successfully applied to 2-acetoxybenzaldehydes 81 as well as 2-vinyl benzaldehydes 82. (45) Related to the work of Dong for the enantioselective intramolecular hydroacylation using a chrial rhodium diphosphine complex, (50) Yoshikai’s protocol for the cobalt-catalyzed intramolecular hydroacylation included CoCl2 as the cobalt source, (R,R)-Ph-DPE as the best chiral ligand and indium as the reductant of choice. (45) When replacing indium by zinc or manganese, the enantioselectivities remained constant, but the yields dropped significantly. The scope was shown to include a variety of differently substituted 2-acetyl benzaldehydes (Scheme 23). A broad range of substituents on the arene 81 gave good yields of the desired products 83 with high enantioselectivities. Furthermore, different acyl groups were well tolerated by the catalyst. Limitations were found when a substituent in the ortho position on one of the carbonyl groups was present, which shut down the reaction completely.
Scheme 23
Scheme 23. Enantioselective Intramolecular Hydroacylation of Ketones 81
For the enantioselective hydroacylation of 2-alkenylated benzaldehydes 82, slight changes in the catalytic system afforded enantioenriched 3-substituted indanones 84 (Scheme 24). (45) Hence, CoBr2 was replaced by CoCl2, (R,R)-BDPP proved to be the best chiral ligand and zinc was the reductant of choice allowing for the enantioselective hydroacylation of olefins.
Scheme 24
Scheme 24. Enantioselective Intramolecular Hydroacylation
The alkene hydroacylation reaction proved to be rather sensitive and allowed only for a limited number of substituents on the vinyl group. The substitution pattern on the aromatic ring only tolerated the 4-fluoro group in compound 84a. Based on a kinetic isotope effect of 1.1 for the ketone hydroacylation the authors suggested the C–H activation to be facile, while the reductive elimination was proposed to be the rate-determining step.
3.3 C–H Arylations
Until 2012, low-valent cobalt catalysis was restricted to addition reactions, namely, hydroarylations and hydroacylations (vide supra). The first arylation reactions with organic electrophiles via C–H/C–O (51) bond cleavage were reported by Ackermann and Song in 2012. (52) The catalytic system consisting of Co(acac)2, IMesHCl as a NHC precursor and cyclohexylmagnesium chloride allowed for the arylation of arylpyridines 22 as well as 2-pyridyl and 2-pyrimidyl indoles 24 with phenol derived aryl carbamates 85 and sulfamates 86 at rather low reaction temperatures, as compared to related arylation methods (Scheme 25). (53, 54) In continuation of these studies, the Ackermann group extended the scope of electrophiles to include readily accessible aryl chlorides 87. (55)
Scheme 25
Scheme 25. C–H Arylation with Aryl Carbamates 85, Sulfamates 86, and Chlorides 87
The catalytic system displayed a broad substrate scope to include electron-rich and electron-deficient aryl and indolylpyridines. Double arylation was negligible and was only observed in trace amounts for a few substrates at elevated reaction temperatures. A remarkable feature of this reaction was the regioselectivity of the arylation with meta-substituted phenylpyridines. For most arylation reactions, the C–H functionalization took place at the sterically less hindered position, which hence was observed for products 88da-dd, with the exception of meta-fluorophenyl (56) pyridines, as shown for product 88eb. (52, 55) For the cobalt-catalyzed C–H arylation, challenging aryl carbamates and sulfamates were also amenable substrates. Aryl chlorides led to the substitution at the sterically more hindered position when bearing a methoxy group (88fa, 88fc, 88fe, and 88ff in Scheme 25c). This secondary directing effect overcompensated even the high steric repulsion of 2-methyl and 2′-methoxy groups on the biaryl moiety of product 88ff with a relatively high yield of 76%.
Related to the concept of cobalt-catalyzed C–H arylation with organic electrophiles, Yoshikai and co-workers concurrently unravelled the use of synthetically useful ketimines 28 as directing groups (Scheme 26). (57) Hydrolysis of the ketimines yielded the corresponding ortho-arylated ketones 90. The reaction showed ample substrate scope with moderate to good yields.
Scheme 26
Scheme 26. Imine-Directed Arylation with Aryl Chlorides 87
Further progress in this field was achieved by the Ackermann group by establishing synthetically useful amides 44 as well as tetrazoles 91 as suitable directing groups. (58) The ideal system for the arylation of benzamides 44 turned out to be Co(acac)2 as the cobalt source, a slightly modified NHC precursor ICyHCl (46d) and cyclohexylmagnesium chloride (Scheme 27). This reaction displayed a broad substrate scope for benzamides 44 and aryl chlorides 87. For further product diversification, these benzamides 92 could be treated with PCl5 and sodium azide to give biaryl tetrazoles 93, which are highly important motifs in drug design, such as in angiotensin-II-receptor blockers (ARBs) Valsartan, Losartan, or Candesartan. (59)
Scheme 27
Scheme 27. (a) C–H Arylation of Benzamides 44, (b) Synthesis of Biaryl Tetrazoles 93
While the most common access to ARBs was until recently represented by palladium-catalyzed cross-coupling reactions, (60) considerable progress has been made with the aid of ruthenium-catalyzed C–H bond arylation of aryl tetrazoles. (59, 61) The low-valent cobalt catalyst also proved to be suitable for the direct arylation of aryltetrazoles 91 with aryl carbamates 85, albeit as of yet with somewhat reduced efficiency (Scheme 28).
Scheme 28
Scheme 28. C–H Arylation of Aryl Tetrazoles 91 by C–H/C–O Bond Cleavage
Despite considerable progress, the full mechanistic details of these arylation reactions have not been elucidated. A proposed catalytic cycle starts by cylocobaltation and features a SET-type mechanism (Scheme 29), as was suggested for the cobalt-catalyzed alkylation (vide infra, see section 3.5). Experiments with radical scavengers provided support for this hypothesis. (55)
Scheme 29
Scheme 29. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Arylation
3.4 C–H Alkenylations
Until very recently, alkenylated arenes were solely accessed through hydroarylation reactions of alkynes by cobalt catalysis (vide supra). (19, 22, 23, 26, 27) However, this strategy inherently showed two major limitations. First, cycloalkenylated derivatives could not be prepared by this method. Second, the regioselectivity of the transformations was purely sterically controlled. Thus, internal alkynes with substituents having close steric parameters resulted in a difficult to separate mixture of regioisomeric products.
To circumvent these limitations, a general protocol for the direct alkenylation of alkenyl derivatives was desirable. In a recent contribution, Ackermann and co-workers presented the first direct alkenylation of (hetero)arenes with easily accessible enol esters (Scheme 30). (62) CoI2, IPrHCl (46b) as a NHC precursor and the base CyMgCl gave the best results for C–H alkenylations of indoles with cyclohexenyl acetate 94a. This method could be applied to numerous indoles 24 as well as enol acetates 94. Pleasantly, 2-pyridylferrocene was successfully alkenylated as well, giving the alkenyl ferrocene 95. While the yield was rather moderate in this case, it represented the first example of cobalt-catalyzed C–H functionalization on ferrocenes.
Scheme 30
Scheme 30. Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkenylation with Cyclic Alkenyl Acetates 94 by C–H/C–O Cleavage
Scheme [a]46d (10 mol %) used at 60 °C.
The behavior of acyclic enol acetates 94 was found to be equally interesting. Hence, mixtures of diastereomers exclusively yielded the alkene with E configuration in a diastereo-convergent fashion as the sole product (Scheme 31).
Scheme 31
Scheme 31. Stereo-Convergent Alkenylation with Acyclic Enol Acetates 94
It should be noted that this reaction was not restricted to enol acetates, but proved also applicable to enol phosphates 96, carbamates 97, and carbonates 98 (Scheme 32). Furthermore, it is noteworthy that direct C–H alkenylations of arenes 22 with enol acetates have as of yet only been achieved by ruthenium catalysis under more drastic reaction conditions. (63, 64)
Scheme 32
Scheme 32. Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkenylation with Enol (a) Phosphates 96, (b) Carbamates 97, and (c) Carbonates 98
A series of competition experiments between enol acetates, carbamates, and phosphates illustrated that acetates and carbamates displayed close reactivities, while phosphates were inherently less reactive. This order of reactivity was unexpected, since it was not in line with the corresponding bond dissociation energies. Mechanistic investigations suggested that an isomerization process took place and that the thus-formed E isomer reacted preferentially. Reactions in the presence of radical scavengers, such as TEMPO, could not exclude a radical-type mechanism. However, it was suggested that the catalytic cycle initiates with the formation of cyclocobaltated complex 99 (vide supra), followed by coordination of the enol derivative to intermediate 100 and subsequent migratory insertion. β-Elimination delivers the product and reductive elimination regenerates the active catalyst (Scheme 33).
Scheme 33
Scheme 33. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Alkenylation with Enol Esters
3.5 C–H Alkylations
Protocols for the synthesis of alkylated arenes by cobalt catalysis were until recently only viable through hydroarylations of alkenes (vide supra). However, the hydroarylation was mostly restricted to styrenes 43 and examples for branched-selective hydroarylations continue to be rare. Therefore, a general protocol for direct alkylations with organic electrophiles, such as alkyl halides, was in high demand. (65) A cobalt-catalyzed ortho-alkylation using alkyl chlorides 101 was reported by the group of Nakamura. (66) Here, the alkylation of benzamides 44 was accomplished with various alkyl chlorides 101 (Scheme 34). The low-valent cobalt catalyst was generated in situ from Co(acac)2 and cyclohexylmagnesium chloride. Interestingly, the use of a σ-donating NHC or phosphine ligand was not required. When using substrates 44a with a substituent in the meta-position, the alkylation proceeded exclusively at the sterically less hindered position (45aa–45ad in Scheme 34). Moreover, meta- or ortho-substitution was essential to avoid double alkylation (45ba). Replacing alkyl chlorides 101 by alkyl bromides led to a significant decrease in the yield. The N–H proton on the benzamide was identified as being crucial, because a reaction with a tertiary benzamide did not deliver any product. Furthermore, replacing Co(acac)2 by Co(acac)3 or CoCl2 did not significantly affect the outcome of the catalytic reaction, which suggests that these cobalt precursors were converted into a comparable catalytically active species. Interestingly, t-BuCl 101d furnished the iso-butyl alkylated benzamide 45ad. This finding can be explained by an initial β-elimination.
Scheme 34
Scheme 34. Direct Alkylation of Benzamides 44
The synthetic utility of cobalt-catalyzed C–H alkylation by ligand acceleration was independently unraveled by Ackermann and Yoshikai. The Ackermann group established a general protocol for the site- and chemoselective alkylation of arylpyridines as well as N-pyridyl and pyrimidyl indoles with alkyl chlorides. (55) Notably, the reaction did not proceed in the absence of a ligand. Among various ligands and preligands, the use of IPrHCl (46b), along with Co(acac)2 and CyMgCl, provided the best results (Scheme 35). The substrate scope included several decorated arylpyridines 22 as well as different alkyl chlorides 101. Moreover, indoles 24 with pyridiyl or pyrimidyl directing groups were site-selectively converted at the C-2 position. Alkylation at the inherently more reactive C-3 position of the indole was not observed. Note that sterically more congested derivatives with substituents at the C-3 or C-7 position were smoothly converted to products 102b and 102ce as well. Beside primary alkyl chlorides, this method was also successfully applied to secondary alkyl chlorides, yielding 47af and 102df. Competition experiments between arylpyridines and pyrimidyl indoles clearly showed indoles to react preferentially, likely due to the increased C–H acidity. Moreover, electron-deficient arenes, such as substrate 22a, turned out to feature a higher reactivity in this reaction compared to electron-rich derivatives, rendering a simple electrophilic C–H activation manifold less likely to be operative. Instead, the kinetic C–H acidity appears to be of key importance.
Scheme 35
Scheme 35. C–H Alkylation with Alkyl Chlorides 101
Beyond C–H alkylations, the Ackermann group also developed the unprecedented cobalt-catalyzed benzylation in 2012 (Scheme 36). (52) Thus, indoles were selectively benzylated with phosphates 103 at ambient reaction temperature.
Scheme 36
Scheme 36. Benzylation of Indole 24d with Phosphate 103a
In addition, the Yoshikai group established direct alkylations of ketimines with primary and secondary alkyl halides 101 and 105 in independent studies. (67) Here, NHC preligands 46e and 46f gave best results. The substrate scope involved primary and secondary alkyl chlorides 101 as well as alkyl bromides 105 (Scheme 37). Primary alkyl halides delivered significantly higher yields and even the steric hindrance of the neo-pentyl substituent did not interfere with the catalytic reaction, as illustrated for compound 48gg. Secondary alkyl halides were converted in moderate to good yields. Acyclic secondary alkyl halides, such as electrophile 103i, gave small amounts of isomerization products. In contrast, cycloalkyl halides furnished the desired products more efficiently. In addition to five-, six-, and seven-membered electrophiles 101l, 101f and 101m, strained four-membered analogue 101k could successfully be employed. However, alkylations with tertiary alkyl halides were not viable. The catalytic system was not restricted to aromatic imines 28, but was also subsequently adopted to arylpyridines. (68) However, substituents on the aryl or pyridyl ring turned out to be mandatory to prevent double alkylation.
Scheme 37
Scheme 37. Direct C–H Alkylation of Ketimines 28 with (a) Primary and (b) Secondary Alkyl Halides
Mechanistic studies by the groups of Ackermann (52, 55) and Yoshikai (67, 69) have been performed to gain insights into the catalysts mode of action. A simple electrophilic-type C–H activation mode could be ruled out, as electron-deficient arenes reacted preferentially, which is in good agreement with a deprotonative-type C–H metalation pathway. A potential reaction mode via β-elimination and hydroarylation was also ruled out. In the presence of the radical scavenger TEMPO a significant decrease of catalytic activity was observed. (55) When enantiomerically pure secondary alkyl halides were employed, a significant racemization was observed. (67) Moreover, experiments with typical radical clocks provided strong support for SET-type processes. These findings strongly suggested a radical-based reaction mechanism to be operative. On the basis of these findings, a plausible catalytic cycle (55, 67) was proposed to initiate by cyclometalation of the arene yielding complex 106 (Scheme 38). The C–X bond activation is then suggested to proceed by a SET-type process to give cobalt-halide species 107 and the alkyl radical. Subsequent radical rebound generates intermediate 108, while reductive elimination and transmetalation delivers the product and regenerates the active cobalt species.
Scheme 38
Scheme 38. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Alkylation with Organic Electrophiles
3.6 Catalysis with Cp*Co(III) Complexes
Until recently, cobalt-catalyzed C–H functionalization chemistry was dominated by low-valent cobalt complexes. These transformations somewhat suffered from the use of a Grignard reagent which limited the functional group tolerance. However, Brookhart’s studies on Cp*Co(I) complexes for hydroacylations indicated the unique potential of the Cp* ligand motif for cobalt-catalyzed C–H functionalizations. The development of well-defined cobalt(III) complexes (70) as candidates for C–H activation reactions represented an advance in cobalt catalysis, being reminiscent of related rhodium(III) catalyzes. Thus, a series of analogues Cp*Co(III) has been prepared (Scheme 39), (70, 71) and recently been evaluated for catalytic C–H functionalizations.
Scheme 39
Scheme 39. High-Valent Cobalt(III) Complexes
3.6.1 Hydroarylations
The direct addition of 2-arylpyridines to imines, and α,β-unsaturated enones using the cobalt(III) complex 113 was described by Matsunaga/Kanai. (72) For the addition to imines 117, best yields were obtained with complex 113 in 1,2-dichloroethane as the solvent (Scheme 40).
Scheme 40
Scheme 40. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Addition Reactions with Aldimines 117
It is noteworthy that further additives, such as silver salts or σ-donating ligands, were not required. Moreover, the simple cobalt salt CoCl2 did not allow for a catalytic reaction to occur (Table 1, entries 1 and 2). Probing different well-defined cobalt(III) complexes suggested the substitution pattern on the Cp-ring to be of key importance. Thus, sterically more congested complexes 109–111 also led to a decrease of catalytic efficacy (entries 3–5). Further, tetramethylcyclopentadienyl-cobalt complex 112 gave rather poor yields (entry 6). The direct comparison of the sandwich complex 113 with the cationic complex in situ generated from neutral complex 116 and a silver salt revealed the single-component sandwich complex to be more reactive (entries 7, and 8). The substrate scope of the optimized catalyst 113 included differently decorated imines. However, a decrease in performance was noted when using electron-rich imines.
Table 1. Catalytic Activity of Cobalt Complexes
entry [Co] (mol %) t [h] yield [%]a
1 CoCl2 (10) 12 0
2 CoCl2 (10) + AgPF6 (20) 12 0
3 109 (10) 20 39
4 110 (10) 20 11
5 111 (10) 20 traces
6 112 (10) 20 22
7 113 (10) 20 80b
8 116c (10) + AgPF6 (20) 20 48
aYield was determined by 1H NMR spectroscopy,
bYield of isolated product.
cThe tetra-chloro complex was used.
In addition to arylpyridines, synthetically more attractive indoles 24 proved to be suitable starting materials, with the C–H functionalization occurring solely at the C-2 position of the heterocycle by chelation assistance (Scheme 41). (73) It was also found that the addition of catalytic amounts of KOAc improved the catalysts’ performance.
Scheme 41
Scheme 41. Additions with 2-Pyrimidyl Indoles 24
The versatile cobalt(III) catalyst proved applicable to a range of imines 117 as well as differently decorated 2-pyrimidyl indoles 24. The increased reactivity of the KOAc modified catalyst could be explained by a carboxylate-assisted C–H activation mechanism (74) via the in situ formation of the cobalt acetate complex [Cp*Co(OAc)2].
The addition reaction was not restricted to imines 117 as the electrophiles. Indeed, similar observations were made for Michael acceptors including α,β-unsaturated enones and N-acylpyrroles 120, as depicted in Scheme 42. (72) The catalyst featured an excellent functional group tolerance with ample substrate scope, enabling the conversion of arenes displaying bromo (22g), dimethylamino (22i) or even free hydroxyl substituents (22h).
Scheme 42
Scheme 42. C–H Functionalization by Conjugate Addition to Michael Acceptors 120
A plausible mechanism was elaborated based on related rhodium(III)-catalyzed transformations, (75, 76) and is depicted in Scheme 43. (72) Initially, the precatalyst 113 upon heating dissociates benzene and two arylpyridines 22 coordinate to complex 122. Afterward, the C–H activation takes place likely via concerted metalation-deprotonation-type (CMD) mechanism (74, 77) or an electrophilic-type metalation to form the cyclometalated intermediate 123. Thereafter, coordination of the imine 117 occurs to generate intermediate 124. Subsequently, insertion of the imine into the Co–C bond takes place, thereby forming the seven-membered cobaltacycle 125. Coordination of another arylpyridine 22 delivers 126 and finally proto-demetalation furnishes the product and regenerates the catalytically active species 123.
Scheme 43
Scheme 43. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Addition (L = 2-Phpy)
While these studies focused on the addition onto double bonds, Matsunaga/Kanai and co-workers also devised related additions onto triple bonds. Based on rhodium-catalyzed transformations reported by the late Fagnou, (78) a cobalt(III) catalyst emerged for the hydroarylation of alkynes with N-carbamoylindoles 127, using the versatile cobalt-catalyst 113 and catalytic amounts of KOAc (Scheme 44). (79) Here, both electron-donating and electron-withdrawing groups on the indole (127b and 127c) were well tolerated. As to the alkynes 20, both alkyl as well as aryl substitution patterns proved suitable, including challenging terminal alkynes 20d. Limitations were found in the case of sterically demanding alkynes and low regioselectivities were observed when using sterically close substituents on the alkyne (128af). These limitations were reminiscent of the ones observed for the low-valent cobalt catalysts (see section 3.2.1). (22)
Scheme 44
Scheme 44. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Alkynes
Because the electronegativity of cobalt is lower than the one reported for rhodium, the organometallic Cp*Co(III) intermediates generated by C–H activation should be more nucleophilic. (79) Matsunaga/Kanai and co-workers envisioned that thereby a more electrophilic carbomyl moiety would lead to nucleophilic attack and, thus, directly furnish pyrroloindolones 129 in a one pot fashion. This hypothesis was put into practice with a better leaving group, namely the morpholino carbamoyl moiety (Scheme 45). Both electron-donating and electron-withdrawing substituents on the indole were tolerated (129eg and 129fg), and most reactions delivered a single regioisomer when using unsymmetrical alkynes 20. (79) Although viable alkynes included bisaryl and aryl/alkyl substitution patterns, bisalkyl and terminal alkynes gave the alkenylated products 128 instead. Furthermore, the attempted synthesis of pyrroloindolone 129 from alkenylated indole 128 under otherwise identical reaction conditions failed, indicating the proto-demetalation to be irreversible in nature.
Scheme 45
Scheme 45. Pyrroloindolones 129 via C–H Alkenylation/Annulation
As to the reaction mechanism, experiments with isotopically labeled substrates showed that complex 113 catalyzed a H/D-exchange at the C-3 position of the indole. The same result was observed, when Sc(OTf)3 was used, demonstrating that this H/D scrambling was due to the action of a Lewis-acid. In contrast, complex 113 modified with KOAc resulted in a selective H/D scrambling at the C-2 position which provided strong evidence for a carboxylate-assisted C–H activation to be operative. (74)
On the basis of the mechanistic findings, a possible catalytic cycle for the carboxylate-assisted hydroarylation/annulation sequence was put forward (Scheme 46). (79) Dissociation of the benzene ligand from complex 113 as well as ligand exchange with acetate generates the neutral complex [Cp*Co(OAc)2] (130). Dissociation of an acetate anion delivers the catalytically active cationic complex [Cp*Co(OAc)]+ (131). This complex is coordinated by the carbamoyl group of the indole 127 and acetate-assisted C–H activation delivers the cyclometalated complex 132. This is followed by insertion of the alkyne into the Co–C bond which gives the seven-membered cobaltacycle 133. Depending on the directing group, two reaction pathways are a priori possible. In the case of the N,N-dimethylaminocarbamoyl group, protodemetalation delivers the alkenylated indole 128 and regenerates the active species 131. If the carbamoyl group bears a better leaving group, annulation takes place by intramolecular nucleophilic attack to provide product 134 with release of the morpholinide, giving the desired pyrroloindolone 129 and the catalytically active species 131.
Scheme 46
Scheme 46. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Hydroarylation/Annulation Reaction
As discussed in section 3.6.1, Cp*Co(III)-catalyzed reactions proceeded via cyclocobaltation and addition onto the multiple bonds. These additions were until recently restricted to alkynes and conjugated double bonds. Additions to aldehydes, yielding either alcohols or further annulation products were in contrast as of yet largely achieved by rhodium (80) or rhenium (81) catalysis. However, in a recent report the Ellman group disclosed a cobalt-catalyzed addition of C–H bonds to carbonyl compounds. (82) The step-economical method involved the C–H functionalization of azobenzenes 1 as well as α,β-unsaturated oximes 135 (Scheme 47). Insertion of aromatic aldehydes and trapping of the thus formed alcohols by nucleophilic attack delivered indazoles 136 or furans 137, respectively. Best yields were achieved with the dimeric complex 116, AgB(C6F5)4 and AgOAc. On the downside, this catalytic system required two relatively costly silver salts as additives. To circumvent this problem, the Ellman group synthesized the novel cobalt complex [Cp*Co(PhH)][B(C6F5)4]2 (114) by salt metathesis from the sandwich complex 113 and KB(C6F5)4. With this precatalyst in hand, only catalytic amounts of acetic acid were required to perform the C–H cascade reaction, leading to indazoles 136 and furans 137.
Scheme 47
Scheme 47. Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Activation/Annulation Cascade
It is noteworthy that the products were usually obtained in higher yields as compared to those under the rhodium(III) catalysis regime. (82)
To confirm the postulated cascade reaction, the independently prepared addition product 138a was submitted to the optimized reaction conditions in the presence of aldehyde 64a. (82) In addition to the annulated product 136a, the cross addition product 136aa was observed, indicating the reversible nature of the C–H functionalization process (Scheme 48).
Scheme 48
Scheme 48. Experimental Evidence for the Reversibility of the C–H Functionalization
Based on these findings, a plausible catalytic cycle was put forward (Scheme 49). Dissociation of the benzene ligand delivers the active catalyst 139. Then, C–H metalation of the arene takes place by chelation assistance (140). Coordination (141) and migratory insertion form the seven-membered metallacycle 142, while protodemetalation yields the alkylated intermediate 138. Thereafter, intramolecular nucleophilic substitution and deprotonation furnish the indazole 136.
Scheme 49
Scheme 49. Proposed Mechanism of Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Indazole Synthesis
3.6.2 C–H Amidations
The synthetic utility of the cobalt(III) catalysis was extended to amidations of arenes. (83-86) In 2014, Matsunaga/Kanai reported the cobalt(III)-catalyzed amidation of pyrimidyl-substituted indoles 24 with sulfonyl azides 143 (Scheme 50a). (84) As the previously established sandwich complex 113 hardly gave any conversion, the catalytic activity of the neutral complex 115 was particularly noteworthy. The generation of the active cationic complex by the addition of a silver salt proved to be essential. With complex 115, AgSbF6 and KOAc as the optimal catalytic system, a wide range of indoles 24 and sulfonyl azides 143 could be directly functionalized with a high functional group tolerance.
Scheme 50
Scheme 50. C–H Amidation of (Hetero)arenes
In a more recent contribution, Matsunaga/Kanai extended this strategy to include phosphoryl azides 144 for phosporamidation of indoles (Scheme 50b). (86) Optimization studies revealed the sandwich complex 113 to be unreactive. Instead, the dimeric complex [Cp*CoI2]2 (116), modified with AgSbF6, proved to be ideal here, and furnished the products selectively. Cobalt(III)-catalyzed amidation reactions were not restricted to azides as the nitrogen source. Thus, Chang and co-workers discovered the cobalt-catalyzed amidation of arylpyridines with most user-friendly carbamates (Scheme 50c). (85) Best results were obtained with N-Boc-protected carbamate 145 using the catalytic system derived complex 115 and AgSbF6. Using their optimized reaction conditions, a variety of arylpyridines with electron-donating or electron-withdrawing groups was successfully converted. It is noteworthy that the amidation of arenes bearing biologically valuable purine directing groups (87, 88) was also accomplished.
A plausible catalytic cycle for these transformations is suggested to commence by the action of a cationic Cp*Co(III) species (Scheme 51). C–H cobaltation delivers the cyclometalated complex 149 and is proposed to proceed via a CMD-type (74) mechanism or electrophilic-type metalation. After coordination of the azide or carbamate, migratory insertion takes place and the leaving group is released to form species 150. Finally, protodemetalation releases the products and regenerates the active catalyst.
Scheme 51
Scheme 51. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed Amidation
3.6.3 C–H Cyanations
Benzonitriles are key structural motifs in natural products, pharmaceuticals, and agrochemicals. (89) C–H cyanations were as of yet only achieved with 4d transition-metal complexes of ruthenium (90) or rhodium. (91) The Ackermann group reported the first Cp*Co(III)-catalyzed cyanation of (hetero)arenes using N-cyano-N-phenyl-p-toluenesulfonamid (151) as an easy to handle cyanating reagent (Scheme 52a). (92) Optimization studies on the nature of the cobalt catalyst and additives revealed [Cp*Co(CO)I2] (115), AgSbF6 and KOAc to be ideal. The system proofed to be highly chemo- and regioselective. In case of meta-substituted arenes 22, the cyanation was observed to selectively take place at the sterically less hindered position, except for 3,4-difluororphenylpyridine 22j where a secondary directing group effect was noted. The method was not limited to aryl-substituted pyridines, but also proceeded well by chelation assistance with indoles, pyrazoles, and pyrroles. With the Cp*Co(III) catalyst, C-2-selective cyanations of indoles 24 were achieved with excellent functional group tolerance and ample scope. Moreover, sterically congested C-3 substituted indoles 24b did not intervene with the catalytic transformation. It should be noted that the facile removal of the pyrimidyl group succeeded in a traceless fashion (Scheme 52b).
Scheme 52
Scheme 52. C–H Cyanation of Arenes and Heteroarenes
In an independent study, the group of Glorius thereafter reported on an efficient system in which KOAc was replaced by NaOAc. (93) The selectivities and yields were comparable to the Ackermann system. However, the scope was significantly expanded to include the chelation-assisted cyanation of alkenes 155 as well (Scheme 53).
Scheme 53
Scheme 53. C–H Cyanation of 2-Pyridylpropene (155)
The group of Chang established N-cyanosuccinimide (157) as an easily accessible and bench-stable electrophilic cyanating reagent. (94) Optimization studies illustrated its improved performance as compared to N-cyanophthalimides. Studies directed toward the scope of arylpyridines 22 and indoles 24 revealed substrate 157 as being slightly less active. It is particularly noteworthy that the protocol proved applicable to the cyanation of 6-arylpurines 158 (87, 88) (Scheme 54).
Scheme 54
Scheme 54. C–H Cyanation of 6-Arylpurines 158 with N-Cyanosuccinimide (157)
To gain insights into the reaction mechanism, inter- and intramolecular competition experiments were performed and gave a KIE of 1.0–1.2, (92, 94) which indicated that the C–H cleavage was likely not involved in the rate-determining step. Furthermore, a Hammett-plot correlation indicated a change in the rate-determining step depending on the substitution on the arene, as reported by Ackermann and Li. (92) Based on these findings, a catalytic cycle (Scheme 55) involves initial reversible C–H metalation to deliver complex 149. Reversible coordination of the cyanating reagent forms intermediate 160 and migratory insertion furnishes complex 161. Finally, β-elimination and protodemetalation delivers the cyanated arene and regenerates the active catalyst.
Scheme 55
Scheme 55. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed C–H Cyanation
3.6.4 C–H Aminocarbonylations
Recently, the Ackermann group developed the cobalt(III)-catalyzed aminocarbonylation of aryl pyrazoles 162. (95) The aminocarbonylation with isocyanates 163 as the electrophiles gave optimal results with [Cp*Co(CO)I2] (115) as the precatalyst, along with AgSbF6 and AgOPiv as the additives (Scheme 56a). The reaction showed a high functional group tolerance and remarkable site-selectivity with meta-substituted arenes 162. Furthermore, isocyanates bearing electron-donating as well as electron-withdrawing groups were smoothly converted. As isocyanates are frequently generated in situ from acyl azides by a Curtius rearrangement, (96) the Ackermann group also devised a protocol for the aminocarbonylation using a broad range of acyl azides 165 (Scheme 56b). (95)
Scheme 56
Scheme 56. Aminocarbonylation of Aryl Pyrazoles 162 with (a) Isocyanates 163, and (b) Acyl Azides 165
For this C–H transformation, a kinetic isotopic effect (KIE) of 1.4 within inter- and intramolecular reaction was determined, indicating the C–H metalation likely not to be rate-determining. Furthermore, competition experiments showed that electron-rich arenes 162 and electron-deficient electrophiles 163 reacted preferentially, which again provides strong support for a rate-determining nucleophilic attack.
In a concurrent study the Ellman group reported the aminocarbonylation of aryl pyrazoles 162 with isocyanates 163. (97) Among different cobalt complexes, the sandwich complex 113 in combination with KOAc was identified as being optimal here.
3.6.5 C–H Halogenations
As cyanides can be regarded as pseudohalides, cobalt(III) catalysts were also explored for C–H halogenations. Thus, Glorius and co-workers disclosed versatile cobalt(III)-catalyzed brominations and iodinations with easily accessible N-iodosuccinimide (NIS) or N-bromophthalimide (NBP) 166, respectively, under reaction conditions being otherwise identical to those for the C–H cyanation (Scheme 57). (93) Replacing the acetate base by pivalic acid furnished best results in most cases, which can be rationalized in terms of an activation of the halogenation reagent by generation of a more reactive cobalt catalyst with a vacant coordination side. The method proved applicable to arylpyridines 22, acrylamides 167, as well as N-alkylbenzamides 44a–c, giving the desired products in moderate to good yields.
Scheme 57
Scheme 57. C–H Halogenation
3.6.6 C–H Allylations
An allyl group can easily be transferred into a plethora of useful functionalities. Therefore, C–H allylations have been intensively studied in recent years, being dominated by 4d transition-metal catalysis. (98) Efforts toward cobalt-catalyzed C–H allylation have been devoted by the groups of Glorius, Ackermann, and Matsunaga/Kanai. (93, 99-101) In a contribution by Glorius, a catalytic system consisting of the complex [Cp*Co(CO)I2] (115), AgSbF6 and pivalic acid enabled the allylation of 2-pyrimidyl indoles 24 with allyl methyl carbonate (171) in a formal SN-type reaction (Scheme 58a). (93) The substrate scope showed high functional group tolerance, delivering C-2-selective allylated indoles 172 in excellent yields. A remarkable feature of this catalytic system was represented by a low catalyst loading of 0.5 mol % of the cobalt complex and 1.25 mol % of the silver(I) salt additive. Furthermore, the versatility of the approach was highlighted by the allylation to benzamides 44 and acrylamides 167. (99) Moreover, the allylation with 1- or 3-substituted allyl carbonates could be realized. However, 3-substituted allyl carbonates were converted in only moderate yields, as shown for 172ac.
Scheme 58
Scheme 58. Cobalt-Catalyzed Allylation with (a) Allyl Carbonates 171, (b) Allyl Acetates 173, and (c) Allyl Alcohols 175
Scheme [a]5 mol % of 115, 40 mol % of AgSbF6, 20 mol % of PivOH, 80 °C, 16 h.
Scheme [b]110 °C.
Scheme [c]175 (10 equiv).
In independent studies, the Ackermann group showed that Cp*Co(III)-catalyzed C–H allylation was achieved with readily available allyl acetates (173) (Scheme 58b). (100) The robustness of the user-friendly catalyst allowed for the use of a broad range of indole derivatives, being selectively allylated at the C-2 position with excellent functional group tolerance, such as amides 172fd and nitro 172gd groups. The catalytic system was not restricted to 2-pyrimidyl indoles but enabled reactions with pyrroles 174a,b and aryl pyri(mi)dines.
Very recent progress was achieved by Matsunaga/Kanai using allyl alcohols 175 (Scheme 58c). (101) Minor changes in the catalytic system had to be adjusted, in that the two silver salts AgOTf and AgOAc were mandatory. The reaction tolerated a broad range of indoles with substitution at various positions. Furthermore, allylic alcohols 175 with substitution at the 1- and 3-position turned out to be suitable substrates for C–H allylations with notable selectivities.
According to previous reports on cobalt(III) catalysis, a plausible catalytic cycle is based on initial C–H cobaltation of the cationic cobalt species 131 (Scheme 59). This results in the formation of complex 149, which then undergoes coordination by the allyl alcohol derivative. Thereafter, migratory insertion of the allylic double bond into the Co–C bond yields key intermediate 180. An alternative concerted SN2′ mechanism is unlikely according to very recent DFT calculations. (101) Finally, the product is released via β-oxygen elimination which is about 2.4 kcal/mol more favorable than a β-hydride elimination.
Scheme 59
Scheme 59. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed Allylation
3.6.7 C–H Alkynylations
Until very recently, C–H alkynylations were not viable with cobalt catalysts, but mostly required more costly 4d transition metal complexes of palladium (102) or rhodium. (103) In independent studies, the groups of Shi and Ackermann devised two protocols for the cobalt(III)-catalyzed C2-selective C–H alkynylation of indoles (Scheme 60). (104) The reaction discovered by Shi and co-workers comprised a hypervalent iodine reagent 181, Mg(OMe)2 and a catalytic system consisting of complex 115 and AgF (Scheme 60a). (104a) In contrast, Ackermann and co-workers devised the C–H alkynylation with synthetically useful silylbromoalkynes employing complex 116, along with KOAc (Scheme 60b). (104b) It is noteworthy that the later protocol was characterized by a considerable tolerance of functional groups, such as iodo or ketone substituents, under mild reaction conditions.
Scheme 60
Scheme 60. C–H Alkynylation of Indoles 24
Scheme [a]Reaction performed at 80 °C.
3.6.8 Isohypsic C–H/N–O Functionalizations
Very recently the cobalt-catalyzed synthesis of isoquinolines 183 from oximes 184 was independently discovered by Ackermann, (105) Sundaraju, (106) and Matsunaga/Kanai (107) (Scheme 61). These catalytic systems are based on related cobalt(III) precatalyst 115, NaOAc and AbSbF6. (105) The isohypsic, i.e. redox-neutral, reaction provided access to a wide range of isoquinolines 183 with high regio-selectivities. (105)
Scheme 61
Scheme 61. Isoquinoline Synthesis from Oximes 184 under Cobalt(III) Catalysis
Scheme [a]15 min.
Scheme [b]In HFIP.
With respect to redox-neutral C–H/N–O cleavages, cobalt(III)-catalyzed amidations were also recently accomplished with 1,4,2-dioxazol-5-ones 185 as robust amidating reagents. (108, 109) While the previously described amidation methods (section 3.6.2) were restricted to the synthesis of phosporyl- and sulfonamides as well as carbamates, (84-86) the use of heterocycles 185 allowed for the preparation of a variety of aryl as well as alkyl amides. (109) The transformation exploited the power of complex [Cp*Co(MeCN)3][SbF6] (186), transforming arylpyridines 22, alkenylpyridines 155, as well as 6-aryl purines 158 (Scheme 62).
Scheme 62
Scheme 62. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Amidation with Dioxazolone 185aa
Scheme a186 (2.5 mol %).
3.7 Oxidative C–H Functionalizations and Annulations
Since Daugulis initially devised directing groups based on 8-aminoquinoline (Q) for the palladium-catalyzed functionalization of C–H bonds, (110) the monoanionic, bidentate directing group has been extensively exploited for palladium-, ruthenium-, iron-, nickel-, or copper-catalyzed C–H functionalizations, among others. (111, 112) As discussed above, cobalt(III) complexes participated in C–H activation, followed by alkyne or alkene insertion. On the basis of these findings, Daugulis and co-workers reported on the cobalt-catalyzed oxidative alkyne annulation with the bidentate Q-auxiliary. (113) The alkyne annulation with amide 187 led to best results when inexpensive Co(OAc)2·4H2O, sodium pivalate and Mn(OAc)2 were utilized (Scheme 63a). A broad range of benzamides 187 as well as internal and even terminal alkynes 20 were efficiently converted. Alkyne annulations with a picolinaminde directing group 188 gave rather moderate yields with stoichiometric amounts of Co(OAc)2·4H2O (Scheme 63b), while the cleavage of the picolinamide occurred efficiently (Scheme 63c).
Scheme 63
Scheme 63. Cobalt-Catalyzed Oxidative Alkyne Annulations
Because it is well established that the bidentate Q-directing group stabilizes transition metals in high oxidation states, it was proposed that cyclometalation and oxidation furnish cobalt(III) intermediate 192. This species undergoes migratory insertion with the alkyne 20 to furnish intermediate 193 (Scheme 64). Reductive elimination finally delivers the product 189 by elimination of Co(I). Alternative pathways via protodemetalation of 193 and oxidative cyclization are less likely to be operative.
Scheme 64
Scheme 64. Mechanistic Considerations for Aminiquinoline-Directed Alkyne Anuulation
Subsequently, Daugulis developed the alkene annulation by benzamides 187 with the Q-directing group. (114) Slight changes in the reaction conditions had to be adjusted to get access to a variety of dihydroisoquinolinones 194 (Scheme 65a). Furthermore, the 4-methoxy-substituted Q-directing group was cleaved in a traceless fashion with ceric(IV) ammonium nitrate (CAN), thereby furnishing the desired NH-free dihydroisoquinolinones 195 (Scheme 65b).
Scheme 65
Scheme 65. Aminoquinoline-Directed Alkene Annulations
While the system developed by Daugulis furnished six-membered hetreocycles, ring-closure to yield five-membered isoindolin-1-ones 196 could not be accomplished until recently. Thus, Ackermann and Ma discovered a procedure for the cobalt-catalyzed oxidative alkenylation with electron-deficient alkenes that selectively delivered isoindolin-1-ones 196 (Scheme 66). (115) Best results were obtained when Co(OAc)2 and AgOPiv were employed in a 4:1 mixture of PEG400 and TFE as the reaction medium. The use of PEG400 had previously been exploited for ruthenium- and palladium-catalyzed C–H arylations. (116) Differently substituted N-quinolinyl benzamides 187 and acrylates 197 furnished a broad range of isoindolin-1-ones 196. (115)
Scheme 66
Scheme 66. Cobalt-Catalyzed Isoindolinone Synthesis
Mechanistic studies with deuterium-labeled arenes unraveled the C–H cobaltation as an irreversible elementary step and a KIE of 1.4 and 1.6 for the intermolecular and intramolecular competition experiment suggested that the C–H metalation is likely kinetically relevant. On the basis of these mechanistic studies, a plausible catalytic cycle was proposed to proceed by a carboxylate-assisted C–H cobaltation to furnish complex 198 (Scheme 67). Subsequent migratory insertion and β-hydride elimination furnished the alkenylated species 199. Finally, isoindolinones 196 was generated after intramolecular alkene hydroamidation.
Scheme 67
Scheme 67. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Oxidative C–H Alkenylation
Based on the high catalytic efficacy of the cobalt catalyst in oxidative annulations of alkynes 20 and alkenes 197, Daugulis and co-workers disclosed the cobalt-catalyzed direct carbonylation of benzamdies 187 through bidentate-chelation assistance (Scheme 68). (117) The C–H transformation occurred at ambient reaction temperature and afforded the desired phthalimides 200. A wide range of functional groups, such as halogen, nitrile, ester, and cyano substituents, was well tolerated under the optimized reaction conditions. Intramolecular competition experiments with meta-substituted arene exhibited high levels of site-selectivity control. The directing group was easily removed by treatment with methanolic ammonia, delivering the parent phthalimide in high yield.
Scheme 68
Scheme 68. C–H Carbonylation of Benzamides 187
Recently, Song and co-workers developed the cobalt-catalyzed C–H alkoxylation of benzamindes 201 bearing a 2-aminopyridine-1-oxide moiety with simple alcohols 202. (118) The reaction proceeded under mild reaction conditions using Co(OAc)2·4H2O as the catalyst and Ag2O as the oxidant of choice (Scheme 69a). With the optimized conditions in hand, various benzamides 201 as well as different alcohols 202 were efficiently transformed. Furthermore, this strategy enabled selective alkoxylation of acrylamides, while the 2-aminopyridine-1-oxide directing group was easily removed to afford the benzoic acid 204 (Scheme 69b).
Scheme 69
Scheme 69. (a) Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkoxylation of Benzamides 201, (b) Directing Group Removal
EPR spectroscopy studies and control experiments with TEMPO as radical scavenger suggested a radical-based reaction pathway likely to be operative. (118) DFT calculations by Wei and Niu provided further strong support for an intermolecular SET-type mechanism, and set the stage for a novel catalyst design. (119)
3.8 Organometallic C–H Activation by Cobalt Carbenoids
Very recently, Glorius and Wang independently described the effective C–H functionalization with α-diazo esters 205 as carbene precursors under cobalt(III) catalysis. (120) When using arylpyridines and benzo[h]quinolone 22 an interesting class of diverse conjugated polycyclic hetereocarbons 206 could be accessed (Scheme 70).
Scheme 70
Scheme 70. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Annulation with Diazocompounds 205
Interestingly, when the Cp*Co(III) complex was replaced by the analogous Cp*Rh(III) complex, the corresponding alkylated arenes were obtained, highlighting the unique features of cobalt(III) catalysis. The difference in chemo-selectivity can be rationalized by the lower electronegativity of cobalt as compared to rhodium. Hence, in both cases, the ortho-alkylation is supposed to occur first. However, the cobalt(III) catalyst is also acting as Lewis-acid, therefore, enabling the nucleophilic addition. Based on this rationale, a catalytic cycle was proposed to commence with C–H metalation (Scheme 71), followed by metal-carbene formation with the diazo compound. Migratory insertion to intermediate 208 and protodemetalation delivers the alkylated arene 209. Lewis-acid activation of the carbonyl group by the cobalt(III) species sets the stage for the nucleophilic attack of the pyridine nitrogen to give the polycyclic compound 206.
Scheme 71
Scheme 71. Proposed Reaction Mechanism for the Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed C–H Activation/Annulation Reaction
This approach draws inspiration from the previous use of carbene precursors for cobalt-catalyzed C–H functionalization. Thus, Miura and co-workers exploited tosylhydrazons 210 as valuable reagents for the C–H alkylation of azoles 37/38. (121) Best catalytic performance was achieved here when using CoBr2 as the cobalt source, phenantroline (phen) as the ligand, and LiOtBu as the base (Scheme 72).
Scheme 72
Scheme 72. C–H Alkylations with Tosylhydrazons 210
Scheme [a]With NaOtBu and DMF instead of LiOtBu and 1,4-dioxane.
4 Conclusion
During the past few years, organometallic cobalt-catalyzed C–H activation has emerged as an increasingly viable tool for the step-economical functionalization and assembly of organic molecules. Thus, the development of low-valent cobalt-catalysis set the stage for C–H arylations, alkenylations, benzylations, and alkylations of arenes as well as alkenes under rather mild reaction conditions. In addition to hydroarylations and hydroacylations, C–H functionalizations with organic electrophiles have proven particularly instrumental for the development of step-economical syntheses. Hence, these inexpensive catalysts proved generally applicable and enabled applications to the synthesis of block-buster drug scaffolds, among others. Here, a significant ligand rate acceleration was achieved, most notably with monodentate N-heterocyclic carbene or phosphine ligands that provide kinetic stabilization through a bulky substitution pattern. The vast majority of low-valent cobalt-catalyzed C–H activations thus far called for stoichiometric amounts of Grignard reagents, partly because of the reductive in situ generation of the catalytically active cobalt catalysts, with notable exceptions by Vinogradov, (41) Kisch, (19) Brookhart, (42, 43) and Petit (24b) in addition reactions. In contrast, the discovery of high-valent cobalt(II) and cobalt(III) catalysis recently set the stage for versatile C–H functionalization processes. A significant impetus was gained by the identification of a Cp*-derived ligand design for cobalt(I) and cobalt(III) catalysts by Brookhart and Matsunaga/Kanai that—to some extent—mimic the previously used, more expensive (122) rhodium and iridium catalysts. However, based on inter alia the different electronic properties between iridium and rhodium versus cobalt, this strategy enabled improved selectivities and entirely novel chemical transformations, which were largely based on the higher nucleophilicity of organometallic cobalt(III) species, along with their Lewis-acidic properties. For instance, the positional and chemo selectivities in direct allylations, (101) and annulations (120) were found considerably improved, while the catalytic efficacy in C–H amidations (108) or annulations od aldehydes (82) proceeded best with cobalt(III) catalysts. Generally, the high-valent cobalt catalyst precursors are air-stable and offer an excellent functional group tolerance at rather low catalyst loading. While in cobalt(III)-catalyzed C–H functionalizations silver(I) salts are often used as stoichiometric oxidants or cocatalytic additives, strategies for their replacement by less expensive reagents have emerged. The cobalt(III)-catalyzed C–H activation mostly occurs by facile carboxylate-assisted C–H metalation, and proved amenable to removable directing group strategies. The outstanding potential of cobalt catalysis for and beyond C–H functionalizations is further reflected by the very recent application to the transformation of C(sp3)–H bonds, (123) as well as to the catalytic activation of C–C bonds. (124) Thus far, the majority of cobalt-catalyzed C–H activations utilized relatively high catalyst loadings. Thus, future efforts should inter alia be directed toward the design of more effective and robust catalysts. In addition, in low-valent cobalt-catalyzed C–H functionalization chemistry it is desirable to establish a generally applicable replacement for the omnipresent Grignard reagents. (19, 24b, 42, 43) Considering the sustainable nature of C–H functionalization technologies, along with the cost-effective nature of cobalt catalysis, further exciting developments are expected in this rapidly evolving research area.
Author Information
Corresponding Author
Lutz Ackermann - Institut für Organische und Biomolekulare Chemie, Georg-August-Universität, Tammannstraße 2, 37077 Göttingen, Germany;  Email: lutz.ackermann@chemie.uni-goettingen.de
Authors
Marc Moselage - Institut für Organische und Biomolekulare Chemie, Georg-August-Universität, Tammannstraße 2, 37077 Göttingen, Germany
Jie Li - Institut für Organische und Biomolekulare Chemie, Georg-August-Universität, Tammannstraße 2, 37077 Göttingen, Germany
Notes
The authors declare no competing financial interest.
Acknowledgment
Generous support by the European Research Council under the European Community’s Seventh Framework Program (FP 2007–2013)/ ERC Grant agreement no. 307535, the DFG (priority program SPP 1807) and the CSC (fellowship to J.L.) is gratefully acknowledged.
References
This article references 124 other publications.
1Representative recent reviews on C–H activation:
(a) Li, J.; De Sarkar, S.; Ackermann, L. Top. Organomet. Chem. 2015,  DOI: 10.1007/3418_2015_130
Google Scholar
(b) Kuhl, N.; Schroder, N.; Glorius, F. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2014, 356, 1443– 1460 DOI: 10.1002/adsc.201400197
Google Scholar
(c) Tani, S.; Uehara, T. N.; Yamaguchi, J.; Itami, K. Chem. Sci. 2014, 5, 123– 135 DOI: 10.1039/C3SC52199K
Google Scholar
(d) Girard, S. A.; Knauber, T.; Li, C.-J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 74– 80 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201304268
Google Scholar
(e) Thirunavukkarasu, V. S.; Kozhushkov, S. I.; Ackermann, L. Chem. Commun. 2014, 50, 29– 39 DOI: 10.1039/C3CC47028H
Google Scholar
(f) Rouquet, G.; Chatani, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 11726– 11743 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201301451
Google Scholar
(g) Satoh, T.; Miura, M. Chem. - Eur. J. 2010, 16, 11212– 11222 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201001363
Google Scholar
(h) Daugulis, O. Top. Curr. Chem. 2009, 292, 57– 84 DOI: 10.1007/128_2009_10
Google Scholar
(i) Giri, R.; Shi, B.-F.; Engle, K. M.; Maugel, N.; Yu, J.-Q. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2009, 38, 3242– 3272 DOI: 10.1039/b816707a
Google Scholar
(j) Ackermann, L.; Vicente, R.; Kapdi, A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 9792– 9826 DOI: 10.1002/anie.200902996
Google Scholar
(k) Chen, X.; Engle, K. M.; Wang, D.-H.; Yu, J.-Q. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2009, 48, 5094– 5115 DOI: 10.1002/anie.200806273
Google Scholar
2(a) Wencel-Delord, J.; Glorius, F. Nat. Chem. 2013, 5, 369– 375 DOI: 10.1038/nchem.1607
Google Scholar
(b) Yamaguchi, J.; Yamaguchi, A. D.; Itami, K. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 8960– 9009 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201201666
Google Scholar
(c) Schipper, D. J.; Fagnou, K. Chem. Mater. 2011, 23, 1594– 1600 DOI: 10.1021/cm103483q
Google Scholar
3For selected reviews and accounts, see:
(a) Ye, B.; Cramer, N. Acc. Chem. Res. 2015, 48, 1308– 1318 DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.5b00092
Google Scholar
(b) Ackerman, L.; Li, J. Nat. Chem. 2015, 7, 686– 687 DOI: 10.1038/nchem.2334
Google Scholar
(c) Zhang, X.-S.; Chen, K.; Shi, Z.-J. Chem. Sci. 2014, 5, 2146– 2159 DOI: 10.1039/c3sc53115e
Google Scholar
(d) Ackermann, L. Acc. Chem. Res. 2014, 47, 281– 295 DOI: 10.1021/ar3002798
Google Scholar
(e) Kuhl, N.; Hopkinson, M. N.; Wencel- Delord, J.; Glorius, F. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 10236– 10254 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201203269
Google Scholar
(f) Arockiam, P. B.; Bruneau, C.; Dixneuf, P. H. Chem. Rev. 2012, 112, 5879– 5918 DOI: 10.1021/cr300153j
Google Scholar
(g) Neufeldt, S. R.; Sanford, M. S. Acc. Chem. Res. 2012, 45, 936– 946 DOI: 10.1021/ar300014f
Google Scholar
(h) Brückl, T.; Baxter, R. D.; Ishihara, Y.; Baran, P. S. Acc. Chem. Res. 2012, 45, 826– 839 DOI: 10.1021/ar200194b
Google Scholar
(i) Engle, K. M.; Mei, T.-S.; Wasa, M.; Yu, J.-Q. Acc. Chem. Res. 2012, 45, 788– 802 DOI: 10.1021/ar200185g
Google Scholar
(j) Cho, S. H.; Kim, J. Y.; Kwak, J.; Chang, S. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2011, 40, 5068– 5083 DOI: 10.1039/c1cs15082k
Google Scholar
(k) Zhao, D.; You, J.; Hu, C. Chem. - Eur. J. 2011, 17, 5466– 5492 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201003039
Google Scholar
(l) Liu, C.; Zhang, H.; Shi, W.; Lei, A. Chem. Rev. 2011, 111, 1780– 1824 DOI: 10.1021/cr100379j
Google Scholar
(m) Satoh, T.; Miura, M. Chem. - Eur. J. 2010, 16, 11212– 11222 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201001363
Google Scholar
(n) Ackermann, L.; Vicente, R. Top. Curr. Chem. 2009, 292, 211– 229 DOI: 10.1007/128_2009_9
Google Scholar
(o) Colby, D. A.; Bergman, R. G.; Ellman, J. A. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 624– 655 DOI: 10.1021/cr900005n
Google Scholar
4For selected reviews, see:
(a) Su, B.; Cao, Z.-C.; Shi, Z.-J. Acc. Chem. Res. 2015, 48, 886– 896 DOI: 10.1021/ar500345f
Google Scholar
(b) Ackermann, L. J. Org. Chem. 2014, 79, 8948– 8954 DOI: 10.1021/jo501361k
Google Scholar
(c) Yamaguchi, J.; Muto, K.; Itami, K. Eur. J. Org. Chem. 2013, 2013, 19– 30 DOI: 10.1002/ejoc.201200914
Google Scholar
(d) Yoshikai, N. Synlett 2011, 2011, 1047– 1051 DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1259928
Google Scholar
(e) Nakao, Y. Chem. Rec. 2011, 11, 242– 251 DOI: 10.1002/tcr.201100023
Google Scholar
(f) Nakamura, E.; Yoshikai, N. J. Org. Chem. 2010, 75, 6061– 6067 DOI: 10.1021/jo100693m
Google Scholar
(g) Kulkarni, A. A.; Daugulis, O. Synthesis 2009, 4087– 4109 DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1217131
Google Scholar
5Kharasch, M. S.; Fields, E. K. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1941, 63, 2316– 2320 DOI: 10.1021/ja01854a006
Google Scholar
6Hebrard, F.; Kalck, P. Chem. Rev. 2009, 109, 4272– 4282 DOI: 10.1021/cr8002533
Google Scholar
7(a) Khand, I. U.; Knox, G. R.; Pauson, P. L.; Watts, W. E. J. Chem. Soc. D 1971, 36a DOI: 10.1039/c2971000036a
Google Scholar
(b) Khand, I. U.; Knox, G. R.; Pauson, P. L.; Watts, W. E. J. Chem. Soc., Perkin Trans. 1 1973, 975– 977 DOI: 10.1039/p19730000975
Google Scholar
8 CRC Handbook of Chemicals and Physics, 95th ed.; Haynes, W. M., Ed.; CRC Press/Taylor and Francis: Boca Raton, 2015.
Google Scholar
9 Handbook of C–H Transformations: Applications in Organic Synthesis, 2nd ed.; Dyker, G., Ed.; Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, 2005.
Google Scholar
10For selected recent examples of outer-sphere-type C–H functionalizations, see:
(a) Villanueva, O.; Weldy, N. M.; Blakey, S. B.; MacBeth, C. E. Chem. Sci. 2015, 6, 6672– 6675 DOI: 10.1039/C5SC01162K
Google Scholar
(b) Scheuermann, M. L.; Johnson, E. J.; Chirik, P. J. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 2716– 2719 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b01135
Google Scholar
(c) Obligacion, J. V.; Semproni, S. P.; Chirik, P. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 4133– 4136 DOI: 10.1021/ja500712z
Google Scholar
(d) Friedfeld, M. R.; Margulieux, G. W.; Schaefer, B. A.; Chirik, P. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 13178– 13181and referenes cited therein DOI: 10.1021/ja507902z
Google Scholar
11Klein, H. F.; Helwig, M.; Koch, U.; Florke, U.; Haupt, H. J. Z. Naturforsch., B: J. Chem. Sci. 1993, 48, 778– 784 DOI: 10.1515/znb-1993-0612
Google Scholar
12Klein, H.-F.; Schneider, S.; He, M.; Floerke, U.; Haupt, H.-J. Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 2000, 2295– 2301 DOI: 10.1002/1099-0682(200010)2000:10<2295::AID-EJIC2295>3.0.CO;2-C
Google Scholar
13Klein, H.-F.; Beck, R.; Flörke, U.; Haupt, H.-J. Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 2003, 1380– 1387 DOI: 10.1002/ejic.200390179
Google Scholar
14Klein, H.-F.; Camadanli, S.; Beck, R.; Leukel, D.; Flörke, U. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2005, 44, 975– 977 DOI: 10.1002/anie.200460978
Google Scholar
15Camadanli, S.; Beck, R.; Florke, U.; Klein, H.-F. Dalton. Trans. 2008, 5701– 5704 DOI: 10.1039/b813419g
Google Scholar
16Beck, R.; Sun, H.; Li, X.; Camadanli, S.; Klein, H.-F. Eur. J. Inorg. Chem. 2008, 3253– 3257 DOI: 10.1002/ejic.200800397
Google Scholar
17Murahashi, S.; Horiie, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1956, 78, 4816– 4817 DOI: 10.1021/ja01599a079
Google Scholar
18Murahashi, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1955, 77, 6403– 6404 DOI: 10.1021/ja01628a120
Google Scholar
19Halbritter, G.; Knoch, F.; Wolski, A.; Kisch, H. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl. 1994, 33, 1603– 1605 DOI: 10.1002/anie.199416031
Google Scholar
20Gao, K.; Lee, P.-S.; Fujita, T.; Yoshikai, N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 12249– 12251 DOI: 10.1021/ja106814p
Google Scholar
21Ackermann, L.; Lygin, A. V. Org. Lett. 2012, 14, 764– 767 DOI: 10.1021/ol203309y
Google Scholar
22Ding, Z.; Yoshikai, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 4698– 4701 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201200019
Google Scholar
23(a) Lee, P.-S.; Fujita, T.; Yoshikai, N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 17283– 17295 DOI: 10.1021/ja2047073
Google Scholar
For cobalt-catalyzed C–H activations by means of 1,4-migration, see:
(b) Tan, B.-H; Dong, J.; Yoshikai, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 9610– 9614 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201204388
Google Scholar
(c) Tan, B.-H; Yoshikai, N. Org. Lett. 2014, 16, 3392– 3395 DOI: 10.1021/ol501449j
Google Scholar
24(a) Yamakawa, T.; Yoshikai, N. Tetrahedron 2013, 69, 4459– 4465 DOI: 10.1016/j.tet.2013.02.092
Google Scholar
(b) For a related study on cobalt-catalyzed low-valent hydroarylation of alkynes, see: Fallon, B. J.; Derat, F.; Amatore, M.; Aubert, C.; Chemla, F.; Ferreira, F.; Perez-Luna, A.; Petit, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 2448– 2451 DOI: 10.1021/ja512728f
Google Scholar
25Gao, K.; Yoshikai, N. Acc. Chem. Res. 2014, 47, 1208– 1219 DOI: 10.1021/ar400270x
Google Scholar
26Ding, Z.; Yoshikai, N. Org. Lett. 2010, 12, 4180– 4183 DOI: 10.1021/ol101777x
Google Scholar
27Ding, Z.; Yoshikai, N. Synthesis 2011, 2561– 2566 DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1260077
Google Scholar
28Yamakawa, T.; Yoshikai, N. Org. Lett. 2013, 15, 196– 199 DOI: 10.1021/ol303259m
Google Scholar
29Colby, D. A.; Bergman, R. G.; Ellman, J. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 3645– 3651 DOI: 10.1021/ja7104784
Google Scholar
30Duttwyler, S.; Lu, C.; Rheingold, A. L.; Bergman, R. G.; Ellman, J. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 134, 4064– 4067 DOI: 10.1021/ja2119833
Google Scholar
31Ilies, L.; Chen, Q.; Zeng, X.; Nakamura, E. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 5221– 5223 DOI: 10.1021/ja200645w
Google Scholar
32(a) Gao, K.; Yoshikai, N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 400– 402 DOI: 10.1021/ja108809u
Google Scholar
For a more recent protocol that uses elaborated phosphine ligands, see:
(b) Xu, W.; Yoshikai, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 14166– 14170 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201408028
Google Scholar
33Gao, K.; Yoshikai, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 6888– 6892 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201101823
Google Scholar
34Lee, P.-S.; Yoshikai, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 1240– 1244 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201207958
Google Scholar
35Dong, J.; Lee, P.-S.; Yoshikai, N. Chem. Lett. 2013, 42, 1140– 1142 DOI: 10.1246/cl.130508
Google Scholar
36(a) Ding, Z.; Yoshikai, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 8574– 8578 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201305151
Google Scholar
(b) Xu, W.; Yoshikai, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 14166– 14170 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201408028
Google Scholar
37(a) Gao, K.; Paira, R.; Yoshikai, N. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2014, 356, 1486– 1490 DOI: 10.1002/adsc.201400049
Google Scholar
(b) Gao, K.; Yoshikai, N. Chem. Commun. 2012, 48, 4305– 4307 DOI: 10.1039/c2cc31114c
Google Scholar
38For related nickel-catalyzed reactions, see:
(a) Nakao, Y.; Yamada, Y.; Kashihara, N.; Hiyama, T. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 13666– 13668 DOI: 10.1021/ja106514b
Google Scholar
(b) Tsai, C.-C.; Shih, W.-C.; Fang, C.-Y.; Li, C.-Y.; Ong, T.-G.; Yap, G. A. P. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 11887– 11889 DOI: 10.1021/ja1061246
Google Scholar
39Andou, T.; Saga, Y.; Komai, H.; Matsunaga, S.; Kanai, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 3213– 3216 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201208666
Google Scholar
40Lee, P.-S.; Yoshikai, N. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 22– 25 DOI: 10.1021/ol503119z
Google Scholar
41Vinogradov, M. G.; Tuzikov, A. B.; Nikishin, G. I.; Shelimov, B. N.; Kazansky, V. B. J. Organomet. Chem. 1988, 348, 123– 134 DOI: 10.1016/0022-328X(88)80345-0
Google Scholar
42(a) Lenges, C. P.; Brookhart, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1997, 119, 3165– 3166 DOI: 10.1021/ja9639776
Google Scholar
(b) Lenges, C. P.; Brookhart, M.; Grant, B. E. J. Organomet. Chem. 1997, 528, 199– 203 DOI: 10.1016/S0022-328X(96)06592-8
Google Scholar
43Lenges, C. P.; White, P. S.; Brookhart, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1998, 120, 6965– 6979 DOI: 10.1021/ja980610n
Google Scholar
44Chen, Q. A.; Kim, D. K.; Dong, V. M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 3772– 3775 DOI: 10.1021/ja500268w
Google Scholar
45Yang, J.; Yoshikai, N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 16748– 16751 DOI: 10.1021/ja509919x
Google Scholar
46Yang, J.; Seto, Y. W.; Yoshikai, N. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 3054– 3057 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b00581
Google Scholar
47Shibahara, F.; Bower, J. F.; Krische, M. J. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 14120– 14122 DOI: 10.1021/ja805356j
Google Scholar
48Omura, S.; Fukuyama, T.; Horiguchi, J.; Murakami, Y.; Ryu, I. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2008, 130, 14094– 14095 DOI: 10.1021/ja806929y
Google Scholar
49For related rhodium-catalyzed transformations, see:
(a) Park, Y. J.; Park, J.-W.; Jun, C.-H. Acc. Chem. Res. 2008, 41, 222– 234 DOI: 10.1021/ar700133y
Google Scholar
(b) Jun, C.-H.; Hong, J. B.; Lee, D.-Y. Synlett 1999, 1999, 1– 12 DOI: 10.1055/s-1999-2520
Google Scholar
50Phan, D. H. T.; Kim, B.; Dong, V. M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2009, 131, 15608– 15609 DOI: 10.1021/ja907711a
Google Scholar
51For C–H arylations with Grignard reagents via radical mechanisms, see:
(a) Liu, W.; Cao, H.; Xin, J.; Jin, L.; Lei, A. Chem. - Eur. J. 2011, 17, 3588– 3592 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201002290
Google Scholar
(b) Li, H.; Sun, C.-L.; Yu, M.; Yu, D.-G.; Li, B.-J.; Shi, Z.-J. Chem. - Eur. J. 2011, 17, 3593– 3597 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201002309
Google Scholar
For selected reviews on C–O activation, see:
(c) Tobisu, M.; Chatani, N. Acc. Chem. Res. 2015, 48, 1717– 1726 DOI: 10.1021/acs.accounts.5b00051
Google Scholar
(d) Cornella, J.; Zarate, C.; Martin, R. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2014, 43, 8081– 8097 DOI: 10.1039/C4CS00206G
Google Scholar
(e) Högermeier, J.; Reissig, H.-U. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2009, 351, 2747– 2763and references cited therein DOI: 10.1002/adsc.200900566
Google Scholar
52Song, W.; Ackermann, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 8251– 8254 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201202466
Google Scholar
53 Metal-Catalyzed Cross-Coupling Reactions, 2nd ed.; de Meijere, A.; Diederich, F., Eds.; Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, 2004.
Google Scholar
54(a) Modern Arylation Methods; Ackermann, L., Ed.; Wiley-VCH: Weinheim, 2009.
Google Scholar
See also:
(b) To, C. T.; Chan, T. L.; Li, B. Z.; Hui, Y. Y.; Kwok, T. Y.; Lam, S. Y.; Chan, K. S. Tetrahedron Lett. 2011, 52, 1023– 1026 DOI: 10.1016/j.tetlet.2010.12.092
Google Scholar
(c) Li, B.; Wu, Z.; Gu, Y.; Sun, C.; Wang, B.; Shi, Z.-J. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 1109– 1113 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201005394
Google Scholar
(d) Tiecco, M. Chem. Commun. 1965, 555– 556 DOI: 10.1039/c19650000555
Google Scholar
55Punji, B.; Song, W.; Shevchenko, G. A.; Ackermann, L. Chem. - Eur. J. 2013, 19, 10605– 10610 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201301409
Google Scholar
56Balcells, D.; Clot, E.; Eisenstein, O. Chem. Rev. 2010, 110, 749– 823 DOI: 10.1021/cr900315k
Google Scholar
57Gao, K.; Lee, P.-S.; Long, C.; Yoshikai, N. Org. Lett. 2012, 14, 4234– 4237 DOI: 10.1021/ol301934y
Google Scholar
58Li, J.; Ackermann, L. Chem. - Eur. J. 2015, 21, 5718– 5722 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201500552
Google Scholar
59Ackermann, L. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2015, 19, 260– 269 DOI: 10.1021/op500330g
Google Scholar
60Representative recent Valsartan syntheses by palladium catalysis:
(a) Wang, G.; Sun, B.; Peng, C. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2011, 15, 986– 988 DOI: 10.1021/op200032b
Google Scholar
(b) Aalla, S.; Gilla, G.; Bojja, Y.; Anumula, R. R.; Vummenthala, P. R.; Padi, P. R. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2012, 16, 682– 686 DOI: 10.1021/op3000306
Google Scholar
(c) Senthil, K.; Reddy, S. B.; Sinha, B. K.; Mukkanti, D.; Dandala, R. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2009, 13, 1185– 1189 DOI: 10.1021/op9000912
Google Scholar
(d) Beutler, U.; Boehm, M.; Fuenfschilling, P. C.; Heinz, T.; Mutz, J.-P.; Onken, U.; Mueller, M.; Zaugg, W. Org. Process Res. Dev. 2007, 11, 892– 898 DOI: 10.1021/op700120n
Google Scholar
(e) Ghosh, S.; Kumar, A. S.; Mehta, G. N. Beilstein J. Org. Chem. 2010, 6, 27 DOI: 10.3762/bjoc.6.27
Google Scholar
(f) Goossen, L. J.; Melzer, B. J. Org. Chem. 2007, 72, 7473– 7476and references cited therein DOI: 10.1021/jo701391q
Google Scholar
61(a) Seki, M. ACS Catal. 2014, 4, 4047– 4050 DOI: 10.1021/cs501328x
Google Scholar
(b) Diers, E.; Kumar, N. Y. P.; Mejuch, T.; Marek, I.; Ackermann, L. Tetrahedron 2013, 69, 4445– 4453and references cited therein DOI: 10.1016/j.tet.2013.01.006
Google Scholar
62Moselage, M.; Sauermann, N.; Richter, S. C.; Ackermann, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 6352– 6355 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201412319
Google Scholar
63Matsuura, Y.; Tamura, M.; Kochi, T.; Sato, M.; Chatani, N.; Kakiuchi, F. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2007, 129, 9858– 9859 DOI: 10.1021/ja071965m
Google Scholar
64Ogiwara, Y.; Tamura, M.; Kochi, T.; Matsuura, Y.; Chatani, N.; Kakiuchi, F. Organometallics 2014, 33, 402– 420 DOI: 10.1021/om401204h
Google Scholar
65Ackermann, L. Chem. Commun. 2010, 46, 4866– 4877 DOI: 10.1039/c0cc00778a
Google Scholar
66Chen, Q.; Ilies, L.; Nakamura, E. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2011, 133, 428– 429 DOI: 10.1021/ja1099853
Google Scholar
67(a) Gao, K.; Yoshikai, N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 9279– 9282 DOI: 10.1021/ja403759x
Google Scholar
(b) For related benzylations, see: Xu, W.; Paira, R.; Yoshikai, N. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 4192– 4195 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b01955
Google Scholar
68Gao, K.; Yamakawa, T.; Yoshikai, N. Synthesis 2014, 46, 2024– 2039 DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1338658
Google Scholar
69Gao, K.; Paira, R.; Yoshikai, N. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2014, 356, 1486– 1490 DOI: 10.1002/adsc.201400049
Google Scholar
70Koelle, U.; Fuss, B.; Rajasekharan, M. V.; Ramakrishna, B. L.; Ammeter, J. H.; Boehm, M. C. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1984, 106, 4152– 4160 DOI: 10.1021/ja00327a014
Google Scholar
71Li, W.; Weng, L.-H.; Jin, G.-X. Inorg. Chem. Commun. 2004, 7, 1174– 1177 DOI: 10.1016/j.inoche.2004.09.005
Google Scholar
72Yoshino, T.; Ikemoto, H.; Matsunaga, S.; Kanai, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 2207– 2211 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201209226
Google Scholar
73Yoshino, T.; Ikemoto, H.; Matsunaga, S.; Kanai, M. Chem. - Eur. J. 2013, 19, 9142– 9146 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201301505
Google Scholar
74Ackermann, L. Chem. Rev. 2011, 111, 1315– 1345 DOI: 10.1021/cr100412j
Google Scholar
75Li, Y.; Zhang, X.-S.; Li, H.; Wang, W.-H.; Chen, K.; Li, B.-J.; Shi, Z.-J. Chem. Sci. 2012, 3, 1634– 1639 DOI: 10.1039/c2sc01081j
Google Scholar
76Tauchert, M. E.; Incarvito, C. D.; Rheingold, A. L.; Bergman, R. G.; Ellman, J. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2012, 134, 1482– 1485 DOI: 10.1021/ja211110h
Google Scholar
77Lapointe, D.; Fagnou, K. Chem. Lett. 2010, 39, 1118– 1126 DOI: 10.1246/cl.2010.1118
Google Scholar
78Schipper, D. J.; Hutchinson, M.; Fagnou, K. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2010, 132, 6910– 6911 DOI: 10.1021/ja103080d
Google Scholar
79Ikemoto, H.; Yoshino, T.; Sakata, K.; Matsunaga, S.; Kanai, M. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 5424– 5431 DOI: 10.1021/ja5008432
Google Scholar
80(a) For indazole synthesis, see: Lian, Y.; Bergman, R. G.; Lavis, L. D.; Ellman, J. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 7122– 7125 DOI: 10.1021/ja402761p
Google Scholar
(b) For furan synthesis, see: Lian, Y.; Huber, T.; Hesp, K. D.; Bergman, R. G.; Ellman, J. A. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 629– 633 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201207995
Google Scholar
For phthalide synthesis, see:
(c) Lian, Y.; Bergman, R. G.; Ellman, J. A. Chem. Sci. 2012, 3, 3088– 3091 DOI: 10.1039/c2sc20835k
Google Scholar
(d) Shi, X.; Li, C.-J. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2012, 354, 2933– 2938 DOI: 10.1002/adsc.201200690
Google Scholar
81For the rhenium-catalyzed synthesis of isobenzofurans, see:Kuninobu, Y.; Nishina, Y.; Nakagawa, C.; Takai, K. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2006, 128, 12376– 12377 DOI: 10.1021/ja065643e
Google Scholar
82Hummel, J. R.; Ellman, J. A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 490– 498 DOI: 10.1021/ja5116452
Google Scholar
83Park, S. H.; Kwak, J.; Shin, K.; Ryu, J.; Park, Y.; Chang, S. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 2492– 2502 DOI: 10.1021/ja411072a
Google Scholar
84Sun, B.; Yoshino, T.; Matsunaga, S.; Kanai, M. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2014, 356, 1491– 1495 DOI: 10.1002/adsc.201301110
Google Scholar
85Patel, P.; Chang, S. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 853– 858 DOI: 10.1021/cs501860b
Google Scholar
86Sun, B.; Yoshino, T.; Matsunaga, S.; Kanai, M. Chem. Commun. 2015, 51, 4659– 4661 DOI: 10.1039/C4CC10284C
Google Scholar
87(a) Hocek, M.; Naus, P.; Pohl, R.; Votruba, I.; Furman, P. A.; Tharnish, P. M.; Otto, M. J. J. Med. Chem. 2005, 48, 5869– 5873 DOI: 10.1021/jm050335x
Google Scholar
(b) Bakkestuen, A. K.; Gundersen, L.-L.; Utenova, B.-T. J. Med. Chem. 2005, 48, 2710– 2723 DOI: 10.1021/jm0408924
Google Scholar
(c) Gundersen, L.-L.; Nissen-Meyer, J.; Spilsberg, B. J. Med. Chem. 2002, 45, 1383– 1386 DOI: 10.1021/jm0110284
Google Scholar
(d) Hocek, M.; Holy, A.; Votruba, I.; Dvorakova, H. J. Med. Chem. 2000, 43, 1817– 1825 DOI: 10.1021/jm991167+
Google Scholar
88For a recent review, see:Gayakhe, V.; Sanghvi, Y. S.; Fairlamb, I. J. S.; Kapdi, A. R. Chem. Commun. 2015, 51, 11944– 11960 DOI: 10.1039/C5CC03416G
Google Scholar
89Anbarasan, P.; Schareina, T.; Beller, M. Chem. Soc. Rev. 2011, 40, 5049– 5067 DOI: 10.1039/c1cs15004a
Google Scholar
90Liu, W.; Ackermann, L. Chem. Commun. 2014, 50, 1878– 1881 DOI: 10.1039/c3cc49502g
Google Scholar
91(a) Han, J.; Pan, C.; Jia, X.; Zhu, C. Org. Biomol. Chem. 2014, 12, 8603– 8606 DOI: 10.1039/C4OB01736F
Google Scholar
(b) Gu, L.-J.; Jin, C.; Wang, R.; Ding, H.-Y. ChemCatChem 2014, 6, 1225– 1228 DOI: 10.1002/cctc.201301076
Google Scholar
(c) Chaitanya, M.; Yadagiri, D.; Anbarasan, P. Org. Lett. 2013, 15, 4960– 4963 DOI: 10.1021/ol402201c
Google Scholar
(d) Gong, T.-J.; Xiao, B.; Cheng, W.-M.; Su, W.; Xu, J.; Liu, Z.-J.; Liu, L.; Fu, Y. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 10630– 10633 DOI: 10.1021/ja405742y
Google Scholar
92Li, J.; Ackermann, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 3635– 3638 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201409247
Google Scholar
93Yu, D. G.; Gensch, T.; de Azambuja, F.; Vasquez-Cespedes, S.; Glorius, F. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 17722– 17725 DOI: 10.1021/ja511011m
Google Scholar
94Pawar, A. B.; Chang, S. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 660– 663 DOI: 10.1021/ol503680d
Google Scholar
95Li, J.; Ackermann, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 8551– 8554 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201501926
Google Scholar
96Curtius, T. Ber. Dtsch. Chem. Ges. 1890, 23, 3023– 3033 DOI: 10.1002/cber.189002302232
Google Scholar
97Hummel, J. R.; Ellman, J. A. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 2400– 2403 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b00910
Google Scholar
98Begouin, J.-M.; Klein, J. M. N.; Weickmann, D.; Plietker, B. In Transition Metal Catalyzed Enantioselective Allylic Substitution in Organic Synthesis; Kazmaier, U., Ed.; Springer: Berlin Heidelberg, 2012; Vol. 38, p 269– 320.
Google Scholar
99Gensch, T.; Vásquez-Céspedes, S.; Yu, D.-G.; Glorius, F. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 3714– 3717 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b01701
Google Scholar
100Moselage, M.; Sauermann, N.; Koeller, J.; Liu, W.; Gelman, D.; Ackermann, L. Synlett 2015, 26, 1596– 1600 DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1379927
Google Scholar
101Suzuki, Y.; Sun, B.; Sakata, K.; Yoshino, T.; Matsunaga, S.; Kanai, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 9944– 9947 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201503704
Google Scholar
102Tolnai, G. L.; Ganss, S.; Brand, J. P.; Waser, J. Org. Lett. 2013, 15, 112– 115 DOI: 10.1021/ol3031389
Google Scholar
103Xie, F.; Qi, Z.; Yu, S.; Li, X. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 4780– 4787 DOI: 10.1021/ja501910e
Google Scholar
104(a) Zhang, Z.-Z.; Liu, B.; Wang, C.-Y.; Shi, B.-F. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 4094– 4097 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b02038
Google Scholar
(b) Sauermann, N.; Gonzalez, M.; Ackermann, L. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 5316– 5319 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b02678
Google Scholar
105Wang, H.; Koeller, J.; Liu, W.; Ackermann, L. Chem. - Eur. J. 2015, 21, 15525– 15528 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201503624
Google Scholar
106Sen, M.; Kalsi, D.; Sundararaju, B. Chem. - Eur. J. 2015, 21, 15529– 15533 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201503643
Google Scholar
107Sun, B.; Yoshino, T.; Kanai, M.; Matsunaga, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 12968– 12972 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201507744
Google Scholar
108Park, J.; Chang, S. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 14103– 14107
Google Scholar
109Liang, Y.; Liang, Y.-F.; Tang, C.; Yuan, Y.; Jiao, N. Chem. - Eur. J. 2015, 21, 16395– 16399 DOI: 10.1002/chem.201503533
Google Scholar
110Zaitsev, V. G.; Shabashov, D.; Daugulis, O. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2005, 127, 13154– 13155 DOI: 10.1021/ja054549f
Google Scholar
111For selected examples, see the following. Nickel:
(a) Aihara, Y.; Chatani, N. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2014, 136, 898– 901 DOI: 10.1021/ja411715v
Google Scholar
(b) Song, W.; Lackner, S.; Ackermann, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 2477– 2480 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201309584
Google Scholar
Iron:
(c) Asako, S.; Ilies, L.; Nakamura, E. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 17755– 17757 DOI: 10.1021/ja4106368
Google Scholar
(d) Gu, Q.; Al Mamari, H. H.; Graczyk, K.; Diers, E.; Ackermann, L. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 3868– 3871 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201311024
Google Scholar
Ruthenium:
(e) Rouquet, G.; Chatani, N. Chem. Sci. 2013, 4, 2201– 2208 DOI: 10.1039/c3sc50310k
Google Scholar
Palladium:
(f) Zhang, S.-Y.; He, G.; Nack, W. A.; Zhao, Y.; Li, Q.; Chen, G. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2013, 135, 2124– 2127 DOI: 10.1021/ja312277g
Google Scholar
(g) He, G.; Chen, G. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2011, 50, 5192– 5196 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201100984
Google Scholar
Copper:
(h) Nishino, M.; Hirano, K.; Satoh, T.; Miura, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 4457– 4461and references cited therein DOI: 10.1002/anie.201300587
Google Scholar
112Rouquet, G.; Chatani, N. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2013, 52, 11726– 11743 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201301451
Google Scholar
113Grigorjeva, L.; Daugulis, O. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2014, 53, 10209– 10212 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201404579
Google Scholar
114(a) Grigorjeva, L.; Daugulis, O. Org. Lett. 2014, 16, 4684– 4687 DOI: 10.1021/ol502005g
Google Scholar
For a related study, see:
(b) Suzuki, Y.; Sun, B.; Yoshino, T.; Kanai, M.; Matsunaga, S. Tetrahedron 2015, 71, 4552– 4556 DOI: 10.1016/j.tet.2015.02.032
Google Scholar
115Ma, W.; Ackermann, L. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 2822– 2825 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b00322
Google Scholar
116(a) Ackermann, L.; Vicente, R. Org. Lett. 2009, 11, 4922– 4925 DOI: 10.1021/ol9020354
Google Scholar
See also:
(b) Kavitha, N.; Sukumar, G.; Kumar, V. P.; Mainkar, P. S.; Chandrasekhar, S. Tetrahedron Lett. 2013, 54, 4198– 4201 DOI: 10.1016/j.tetlet.2013.05.106
Google Scholar
A review:
(c) Colacino, E.; Martinez, J.; Lamaty, F.; Patrikeeva, L. S.; Khemchyan, L. L.; Ananikov, V. P.; Beletskaya, I. P. Coord. Chem. Rev. 2012, 256, 2893– 2920 DOI: 10.1016/j.ccr.2012.05.027
Google Scholar
117(a) Grigorjeva, L.; Daugulis, O. Org. Lett. 2014, 16, 4688– 4690 DOI: 10.1021/ol502007t
Google Scholar
(b) For a recent related report, see: Liu, X.-G.; Zhang, S.-S.; Jiang, C.-Y.; Wu, J.-Q.; Li, Q.; Wang, H. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 5404– 5407 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b02728
Google Scholar
118Zhang, L. B.; Hao, X. Q.; Zhang, S. K.; Liu, Z. J.; Zheng, X. X.; Gong, J. F.; Niu, J. L.; Song, M. P. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 272– 275 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201409751
Google Scholar
119Guo, X.-K.; Zhang, L.-B.; Wei, D.; Niu, J.-L. Chem. Sci. 2015, 6, 7059– 7071 DOI: 10.1039/C5SC01807B
Google Scholar
120(a) Zhao, D.; Kim, J. H.; Stegemann, L.; Strassert, C. A.; Glorius, F. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2015, 54, 4508– 4511 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201411994
Google Scholar
For a related recent report, see:
(b) Liu, X.-G.; Zhang, S. S.; Wu, J.-Q.; Li, Q.; Wang, H. Tetrahedron Lett. 2015, 56, 4093– 4095 DOI: 10.1016/j.tetlet.2015.05.025
Google Scholar
121Yao, T.; Hirano, K.; Satoh, T.; Miura, M. Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. 2012, 51, 775– 779 DOI: 10.1002/anie.201106825
Google Scholar
122In November 2015, the prices for cobalt, rhodium and iridium were 0.65, 708 and 520 US $ per troy oz., respectively, see: http://taxfreegold.co.uk/preciousmetalpricesusdollars.html and http://www.lme.com/en-gb/metals/minor-metals/cobalt/.
Google Scholar
123(a) Zhang, J.; Chen, H.; Lin, C.; Liu, Z.; Wang, C.; Zhang, Y. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 12990– 12996 DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5b07424
Google Scholar
(b) Wu, X.; Yang, K.; Zhao, Y.; Sun, H.; Li, G.; Ge, H. Nat. Commun. 2015, 6, 6462 DOI: 10.1038/ncomms7462
Google Scholar
124(a) Ozkal, E.; Cacherat, B.; Morandi, B. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 6458– 6462 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b01753
Google Scholar
For further very recent contributions, see:
(b) Zhang, G.; Liu, C.; Yi, H.; Meng, Q.; Bian, C.; Chen, H.; Jian, J.-X.; Wu, L.-Z.; Lei, A. J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2015, 137, 9273– 9280 DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5b05665
Google Scholar
(c) Beck, R.; Flörke, U.; Klein, H.-F. Organometallics 2015, 34, 1454– 1464 DOI: 10.1021/om500816t
Google Scholar
(d) Yang, K.; Chen, X.; Wang, Y.; Li, W.; Kadi, A. A.; Fun, H.-K.; Sun, H.; Zhang, Y.; Li, G.; Lu, H. J. Org. Chem. 2015, 80, 11065– 11072 DOI: 10.1021/acs.joc.5b01450
Google Scholar
(e) Planas, O.; Whiteoak, C. J.; Company, A.; Ribas, X. Adv. Synth. Catal. 2016,  DOI: 10.1002/adsc.201500690
Google Scholar
(f) Fallon, B. J.; Garsi, J.-B.; Derat, E.; Amatore, M.; Aubert, C.; Petit, M. ACS Catal. 2015, 5, 7493– 7497 DOI: 10.1021/acscatal.5b02138
Google Scholar
(g) Kalsi, D.; Sundararaju, B. Org. Lett. 2015, 17, 6118– 6121 DOI: 10.1021/acs.orglett.5b03142
Google Scholar
Cited By
Citation Statements
beta
Supporting
6
Mentioning
306
Contrasting
0
Explore this article's citation statements on scite.ai
powered by  
This article is cited by 1086 publications.
Preshit C. Abhyankar, Sean M. Morrison, Joshua A. Shoopman, R. Maya Kumar, Adwitiya Singh, Curtis E. Moore, Christine M. Thomas. MIV/Co–I (M = Zr, Hf) Bis(phosphinoamide) Complexes with η6- and η4-Arenes. Organometallics 2024, Article ASAP.
Xiao-Di Ma, Fang-Yuan Ma, Miao-Miao Jiao, Jun-Ting Li, Xin-Fang Duan. Modular and Regioselective Synthesis of Benzo-Fused Five-Membered Rings Enabled by Co/Ti Synergism. Organic Letters 2024, 26 (31) , 6658-6663. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.4c02336
Sayantani Saha, Jeanette A. Krause, Hairong Guan. C(sp)–H, S–H, and Sn–H Bond Activation with a Cobalt(I) Pincer Complex. Inorganic Chemistry 2024, 63 (29) , 13689-13699. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.inorgchem.4c01993
Rupali Dasharath Shinde, Anil Rajendra Paraskar, Jogendra Kumar, Eliza Ghosh, Tapan Kanti Paine, Sukalyan Bhadra. Cobalt Catalyzed α-Hydroxylation of Arylacetic Acid Equivalents with Dioxygen. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2024, 89 (13) , 9666-9671. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.4c00708
Xiao-Hong Chen, Yi-Qing Xu, Mao-Gui Huang, Zhi-Bing Dong, Jia-Wei Li, Yue-Jin Liu. Cobalt/Salicylaldehyde-Enabled C–H Alkoxylation of Benzamides with Secondary Alcohols under Solvothermal Conditions. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2024, 89 (12) , 9011-9018. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.4c00969
Cassandre C. Bories, Alexandre Sodreau, Marion Barbazanges, Marc Petit. Well-Defined Low-Valent Cobalt Complexes in Catalysis: An Overview. Organometallics 2024, 43 (9) , 895-923. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.4c00054
Ian J. S. Fairlamb, Jason M. Lynam. Unveiling Mechanistic Complexity in Manganese-Catalyzed C–H Bond Functionalization Using IR Spectroscopy Over 16 Orders of Magnitude in Time. Accounts of Chemical Research 2024, 57 (6) , 919-932. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.accounts.3c00774
Pranav Shridhar Mahulkar, Sofaya Joshi, Shyam Kumar Banjare, Lamphiza O Najiar, Ponneri C. Ravikumar. Expanding the Scope of Alkynes in C–H Activation: Weak Chelation-Assisted Cobalt-Catalyzed Synthesis of Indole C(4)-Acrylophenone via C–O Bond Cleavage of Propargylic Ethers. Organic Letters 2024, 26 (10) , 2091-2096. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.4c00389
Ozge Turbedaroglu, Temirlan Kubanaliev, Sila Alemdar, Zafer Eroglu, Haydar Kilic, Onder Metin. Reduced Graphene Oxide/Few-Layer Phosphorene Binary Heterojunctions as Metal-Free Photocatalysts for the Sustainable Photoredox C–H Arylation of Heteroarenes. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2024, 12 (9) , 3659-3670. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.3c07117
Ying Song, Ruimin Li, Jintong Bai, Xinghua Li, Shuaikang Zhou, Yuanfei Zhang. Carboxylic Acid-Enabled Vinylene Transfer Reaction by Co(III) Catalyst: Scope and Applications to the Five-Step Total Synthesis of Protoberberine Alkaloids Containing Free Hydroxyl Group without Protection. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2024, 89 (5) , 3238-3250. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.3c02707
Arijit Ghosh, Tamanna Rana, Nilanjan Bhaduri, Amit B. Pawar. Reverse Regioselective Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed [4 + 2] C–H Annulation of N-Chloroamides with Vinylsilanes: Synthesis of 4-Silylated Isoquinolones and Their Synthetic Utilities. Organic Letters 2023, 25 (43) , 7878-7883. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.3c03115
Ping Wei, Jun Ying, Xiao-Feng Wu. Cobalt(II)-Catalyzed Intermolecular Aminocarbonylation of Indoles with Amines. Organic Letters 2023, 25 (42) , 7700-7704. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.3c03034
Deepan Chowdhury, Suman Ghosh, K.S.S.V. Prasad Reddy, Sharma S.R.K.C. Yamijala, Mahiuddin Baidya. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Free-Amine-Directed Site-Selective Allylation in 2-Aminobiaryls with Vinyl Cyclopropanes. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (19) , 12543-12552. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c03112
Egor L. Dolengovski, Tatyana V. Gryaznova, Yulia B. Dudkina, Daut R. Islamov, Robert R. Fayzullin, Oleg G. Sinyashin, Yulia H. Budnikova. Mechanism-Driven Development of N-(Quinolin-8-yl)-benzamide Coupling Reactions via C–H or N–H Activation. Organometallics 2023, 42 (18) , 2568-2576. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.2c00654
Ting Tang, Yiheng Dai, Jiaxing Liu, Jiawei Chen, Bingling Dai, Boxuan Zhao, Cheng Wang. Supported Fe Ions on Different Zr-Based Metal–Organic Frameworks for Alkane Oxidation. ACS Applied Engineering Materials 2023, 1 (9) , 2368-2376. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsaenm.3c00287
Ravichandran Logeswaran, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Dehydrogenative Cross-Coupling of α,β-Unsaturated Compounds with Unactivated Olefins via Co(III) Catalysis. Organic Letters 2023, 25 (34) , 6284-6289. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.3c02095
Die Bai, Man Li, Rong-Zhen Liao. Theoretical Study on the Rhodium-Catalyzed Electrochemical C–H Phosphorylation: Insights into the Effect of Electro-oxidation on the Reaction Mechanism. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (14) , 9352-9365. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c02031
Prabhat K. Maharana, Tanumay Sarkar, Subhradeep Kar, Siddhartha K. Purkayastha, Ankur K. Guha, Tharmalingam Punniyamurthy. Cobalt-Catalyzed Stereospecific C–N/C–O Bond Formation of Oxiranes with Diaziridines. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2023, 88 (13) , 9447-9458. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.3c00445
Ping Wei, Yiwen Zhu, Jun Ying, Xiao-Feng Wu. Cobalt-Catalyzed Direct Alkoxylation of Indoles. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2023, 88 (9) , 6274-6280. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.3c00548
Bishal Boro, Ratul Paul, Hui Ling Tan, Quang Thang Trinh, Jabor Rabeah, Chia-Che Chang, Chih-Wen Pao, Wen Liu, Nam-Trung Nguyen, Binh Khanh Mai, John Mondal. Experimental Validation and Computational Predictions Join Forces to Map Catalytic C–H Activation in Ferrocene Metalated Porous Organic Polymers. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2023, 15 (17) , 21027-21039. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.3c01393
Ravichandran Logeswaran, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Synthesis of Selenoflavones via Ruthenium-Catalyzed Selenylation of Unsaturated Acids. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2023, 88 (7) , 4554-4568. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.3c00036
Dandan Yang, Xian Zhang, Xinghua Wang, Xiao-Ju Si, Jingtao Wang, Donghui Wei, Mao-Ping Song, Jun-Long Niu. Cobalt-Catalyzed Enantioselective C–H Annulation with Alkenes. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4250-4260. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c06355
Yoshimi Kato, Tatsuhiko Yoshino, Shigeki Matsunaga. Iron/Photosensitizer-Catalyzed Directed C–H Activation Triggered by the Formation of an Iron Metallacycle. ACS Catalysis 2023, 13 (7) , 4552-4559. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.3c00381
Shanmugarajan Jothi Murugan, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed Regioselective [4 + 2]-Annulation of N-Chlorobenzamides with Vinyl Acetate/Vinyl Ketones. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2023, 88 (3) , 1578-1589. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c02640
Shyam Kumar Banjare, Annapurna Saxena, Tanmayee Nanda, Namrata Prusty, Sofaya Joshi, Ponneri C. Ravikumar. Weak-Chelation Assisted Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Bond Activation: An Approach Toward Regioselective Ethynylation of N-Aryl γ-Lactam. Organic Letters 2023, 25 (1) , 251-255. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.2c04098
Somratan Sau, Arghadip Ghosh, Majji Shankar, Manash Protim Gogoi, Akhila Kumar Sahoo. Cobalt-Catalyzed Thioamide Directed C(arene)–H Annulation with Ynamide: Regioselective Access to 2-Amidoindenones. Organic Letters 2022, 24 (51) , 9508-9513. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.2c03989
Prithwish Ghosh, Na Yeon Kwon, Youjung Byun, Neeraj Kumar Mishra, Jung Su Park, In Su Kim. Cobalt(II)-Catalyzed C–H Alkylation of N-Heterocycles with 1,4-Dihydropyridines. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (24) , 15707-15714. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04741
Zhongyi Zeng, Hui Gao, Zhi Zhou, Wei Yi. Intermolecular Redox-Neutral Carboamination of C–C Multiple Bonds Initiated by Transition-Metal-Catalyzed C–H Activation. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (23) , 14754-14772. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.2c04964
Hui-Ru Yang, Zhe-Yao Hu, Xin-Chang Li, Ling Wu, Xun-Xiang Guo. Cobalt-Catalyzed Effective Access to Quinoxalines with Insights in Annulation of Terminal Alkynes and o-Phenylenediamines. Organic Letters 2022, 24 (45) , 8392-8396. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.2c03465
Zuguang Yang, Jianhua Tang, Zhengkai Chen, Xiao-Feng Wu. Ruthenium-Catalyzed Hydroxyl-Directed peri-Selective C–H Activation and Annulation of 1-Naphthols with CF3–Imidoyl Sulfoxonium Ylides for the Synthesis of 2-(Trifluoromethyl)-2,3-dihydrobenzo[de]chromen-2-amines. Organic Letters 2022, 24 (40) , 7288-7293. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.2c02685
Suresh Kumar Yadav, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Regioselective [4 + 2]-Annulation of N-Chlorobenzamides with Substituted Alkenes. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2022, 87 (19) , 13073-13088. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c01588
Yong Yuan, Jason S. Lee, Raul F. Lobo. Ga+-Chabazite Zeolite: A Highly Selective Catalyst for Nonoxidative Propane Dehydrogenation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (33) , 15079-15092. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c03941
Maram Gangadhar, Vankudoth Ramesh, Vadla Shiva Prasad, Praveen Reddy Adiyala. Silver Ions Promoted Palladium-Catalyzed Inactive β-C(sp3)–H Bond Arylation in Batch and Continuous-Flow Conditions. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2022, 87 (15) , 9607-9618. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c00606
Aobha Hickey, Julia Merz, Hamad H. Al Mamari, Alexandra Friedrich, Todd B. Marder, Gerard P. McGlacken. Iridium-Catalyzed Borylation of 6-Fluoroquinolines: Access to 6-Fluoroquinolones. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2022, 87 (15) , 9977-9987. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c00973
Diksha Parmar, Ankit Kumar Dhiman, Rohit Kumar, Akhilesh K. Sharma, Upendra Sharma. Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed Selective C8-Olefination and Oxyarylation of Quinoline N-Oxides with Terminal Alkynes. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2022, 87 (14) , 9069-9087. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c00752
Nikolaos Kaplaneris, Marcelo Vilches-Herrera, Jun Wu, Lutz Ackermann. Sustainable Ruthenium(II)-Catalyzed C–H Activations in and on H2O. ACS Sustainable Chemistry & Engineering 2022, 10 (21) , 6871-6888. https://doi.org/10.1021/acssuschemeng.2c00873
Alfredo Pereira, Camilo Albornoz, Oleksandra S. Trofymchuk. Data-Driven Analysis of Reactions Catalyzed by [CoCp*(CO)I2]. Organometallics 2022, 41 (10) , 1158-1166. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.2c00051
Balu Ramesh, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Regio- and Chemoselective [4 + 2]-Annulation of N-Chlorobenzamides/Acrylamides with 1,3-Dienes at Room Temperature. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2022, 87 (9) , 5713-5729. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.2c00072
Supreeth Prasad, Dean J. Tantillo. Roads Not Taken: Mechanism and Origins of Regio- and Chemoselectivity of Directed CoIII-Catalyzed Alkenylation of N-Pyridyl 2-Pyridone. Organometallics 2022, 41 (8) , 937-947. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.1c00662
Wenxin Lu, Yongmei Zhao, Fanke Meng. Cobalt-Catalyzed Sequential Site- and Stereoselective Hydrosilylation of 1,3- and 1,4-Enynes. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (12) , 5233-5240. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.2c00288
William G. Whitehurst, Junho Kim, Stefan G. Koenig, Paul J. Chirik. Three-Component Coupling of Arenes, Ethylene, and Alkynes Catalyzed by a Cationic Bis(phosphine) Cobalt Complex: Intercepting Metallacyclopentenes for C–H Functionalization. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (10) , 4530-4540. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c12646
Sourav Sekhar Bera, Michal Szostak. Cobalt–N-Heterocyclic Carbene Complexes in Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (5) , 3111-3137. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05869
Oaikhena Zekeri Esezobor, Wenyi Zeng, Lukas Niederegger, Michael Grübel, Corinna R. Hess. Co–Mabiq Flies Solo: Light-Driven Markovnikov-Selective C- and N-Alkylation of Indoles and Indazoles without a Cocatalyst. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (7) , 2994-3004. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c10930
Christian A. Malapit, Matthew B. Prater, Jaime R. Cabrera-Pardo, Min Li, Tammy D. Pham, Timothy Patrick McFadden, Skylar Blank, Shelley D. Minteer. Advances on the Merger of Electrochemistry and Transition Metal Catalysis for Organic Synthesis. Chemical Reviews 2022, 122 (3) , 3180-3218. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00614
He Zhang, Meng-Chan Sun, Dandan Yang, Tong Li, Mao-Ping Song, Jun-Long Niu. Cobalt(II)-Catalyzed Activation of C(sp3)–H Bonds: Organic Oxidant Enabled Selective Functionalization. ACS Catalysis 2022, 12 (3) , 1650-1656. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c05250
Nicolas Jacob, Yassir Zaid, João C. A. Oliveira, Lutz Ackermann, Joanna Wencel-Delord. Cobalt-Catalyzed Enantioselective C–H Arylation of Indoles. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2022, 144 (2) , 798-806. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c09889
Bin Liu, Andrew M. Romine, Camille Z. Rubel, Keary M. Engle, Bing-Feng Shi. Transition-Metal-Catalyzed, Coordination-Assisted Functionalization of Nonactivated C(sp3)–H Bonds. Chemical Reviews 2021, 121 (24) , 14957-15074. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.chemrev.1c00519
Yudong Li, Huan Wang, Ying Li, Yang Li, Yuxia Sun, Chungu Xia, Yuehui Li. Manganese-Catalyzed [4 + 2] Annulation of N–H Amidines with Vinylene Carbonate via C–H Activation. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2021, 86 (24) , 18204-18210. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.1c02473
Pankaj P. Jadhav, Nilesh M. Kahar, Sudam G. Dawande. Ruthenium(II)-Catalyzed Highly Chemo- and Regioselective Oxidative C6 Alkenylation of Indole-7-carboxamides. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (22) , 8673-8677. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c02948
Yan-Hua Liu, Pei-Pei Xie, Lei Liu, Jun Fan, Zhuo-Zhuo Zhang, Xin Hong, Bing-Feng Shi. Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed Enantioselective Hydroarylation of Unactivated Terminal Alkenes via C–H Activation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (45) , 19112-19120. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c08562
Nathanael H. Hunter, Elizabeth M. Lane, Kathryn M. Gramigna, Curtis E. Moore, Christine M. Thomas. C–H Bond Activation Facilitated by Bis(phosphinoamide) Heterobimetallic Zr/Co Complexes. Organometallics 2021, 40 (21) , 3689-3696. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.1c00511
Shuling Yu, Chao Hong, Zhanxiang Liu, Yuhong Zhang. Cobalt-Catalyzed Vinylic C–H Addition to Formaldehyde: Synthesis of Butenolides from Acrylic Acids and HCHO. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (21) , 8359-8364. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c03095
Lizhi Wu, Zhuangzhuang Ren, Yongsheng He, Meng Yang, Yunkai Yu, Yueming Liu, Li Tan, Yu Tang. Atomically Dispersed Co2+ Sites Incorporated into a Silicalite-1 Zeolite Framework as a High-Performance and Coking-Resistant Catalyst for Propane Nonoxidative Dehydrogenation to Propylene. ACS Applied Materials & Interfaces 2021, 13 (41) , 48934-48948. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsami.1c15892
Li-Ping Xu, Brandon E. Haines, Manjaly J. Ajitha, Jin-Quan Yu, Djamaladdin G. Musaev. Unified Mechanistic Concept of the Copper-Catalyzed and Amide-Oxazoline-Directed C(sp2)–H Bond Functionalization. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (20) , 12620-12631. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03776
Ana G. Herraiz, Nicolai Cramer. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Diastereo- and Enantioselective Three-Component C–H Functionalization. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (19) , 11938-11944. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c03153
Mao-Gui Huang, Shuai Shi, Ming Li, Yue-Jin Liu, Ming-Hua Zeng. Salicylaldehyde-Promoted Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H/N–H Annulation of Indolyl Amides with Alkynes: Direct Synthesis of a 5-HT3 Receptor Antagonist Analogue. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (18) , 7094-7099. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c02502
Ye Lim Kim, Sun-a Park, Seoung-Mi Choi, Jong-Un Park, Ju Hyun Kim. CoIII-Catalyzed C–H Alkenylation and Allylation with Cyclopropenes via Sequential C–H/C–C Bond Activation. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (17) , 6674-6679. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c02219
Yong Yuan, Casper Brady, Raul F. Lobo, Bingjun Xu. Understanding the Correlation between Ga Speciation and Propane Dehydrogenation Activity on Ga/H-ZSM-5 Catalysts. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (16) , 10647-10659. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c01497
James H. Herbort, Remy F. Lalisse, Christopher M. Hadad, T. V. RajanBabu. Cationic Co(I) Catalysts for Regiodivergent Hydroalkenylation of 1,6-Enynes: An Uncommon cis-β-C–H Activation Leads to Z-Selective Coupling of Acrylates. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (15) , 9605-9617. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c02530
Ravichandran Logeswaran, Masilamani Jeganmohan. Effect of Transition Metals on Chemodivergent Cross-Coupling of Acrylamides with Vinyl Acetate via C–H Activation. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (15) , 5679-5683. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c01797
Smruti Ranjan Mohanty, Namrata Prusty, Lokesh Gupta, Pragati Biswal, Ponneri Chandrababu Ravikumar. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed C-6 Alkenylation of 2-Pyridones by Using Terminal Alkyne with High Regioselectivity. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2021, 86 (14) , 9444-9454. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.1c00769
Bedadyuti Vedvyas Pati, Prateep Singh Sagara, Asit Ghosh, Gopal Krushna Das Adhikari, Ponneri Chandrababu Ravikumar. Ruthenium-Catalyzed Regioselective C(sp2)–H Activation/Annulation of N-(7-Azaindole)amides with 1,3-Diynes Using N-Amino-7-azaindole as the N,N-Bidentate Directing Group. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2021, 86 (14) , 9428-9443. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.1c00759
Rajib Mandal, Bholanath Garai, Basker Sundararaju. Cp*CoIII-Catalyzed C(7)–H Bond Annulation of Indolines with Alkynes. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2021, 86 (14) , 9407-9417. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.1c00713
Arnab Dey, Chandra M. R. Volla. Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Activation and [3 + 2] Annulation with Allenes: Diastereoselective Synthesis of Indane Derivatives. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (13) , 5018-5023. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c01521
Xin Xu, Lin Zhang, Haoqiang Zhao, Yixiao Pan, Jiajie Li, Zhenli Luo, Jiahong Han, Lijin Xu, Ming Lei. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Regioselective C6 Olefination of 2-Pyridones Using Alkynes: Olefination/Directing Group Migration and Olefination. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (12) , 4624-4629. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c01368
Seongho Jin, Jinwoo Kim, Dongwook Kim, Jung-Woo Park, Sukbok Chang. Electrolytic C–H Oxygenation via Oxidatively Induced Reductive Elimination in Rh Catalysis. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (11) , 6590-6595. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c01670
Yong-Liang Ban, Long You, Tao Wang, Li-Zhu Wu, Qiang Liu. Metallaphotoredox Dearomatization of Indoles by a Benzamide-Empowered [4 + 2] Annulation: Facile Access to Indolo[2,3-c]isoquinolin-5-ones. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (9) , 5054-5060. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.1c00920
Benjamin R. Walker, Shuhei Manabe, Andrew T. Brusoe, Christo S. Sevov. Mediator-Enabled Electrocatalysis with Ligandless Copper for Anaerobic Chan–Lam Coupling Reactions. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (16) , 6257-6265. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.1c02103
Lukass Lukasevics, Aleksandrs Cizikovs, Liene Grigorjeva. Cobalt-Catalyzed C(sp2)–H Carbonylation of Amino Acids Using Picolinamide as a Traceless Directing Group. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (7) , 2748-2753. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c00660
Zhuo-Zhuo Zhang, Gang Liao, Hao-Ming Chen, Bing-Feng Shi. Thioamide-Directed Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed C–H Allylation of Ferrocenes. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (7) , 2626-2631. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c00533
Shidheshwar B. Ankade, Anand B. Shabade, Vineeta Soni, Benudhar Punji. Unactivated Alkyl Halides in Transition-Metal-Catalyzed C–H Bond Alkylation. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (6) , 3268-3292. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c05580
Cang Cheng, Dongdong Tu, Xiang Zuo, Zechen Wu, Bin Wan, Yanghui Zhang. Palladium-Catalyzed Dual Coupling Reaction of 2-Iodobiphenyls with o-Bromoanilines through C–H Activation: An Approach for the Synthesis of Tribenzo[b,d,f]azepines. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (4) , 1239-1242. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c04192
Bin Wan, Zhuoer Lu, Zhuo Wu, Cang Cheng, Yanghui Zhang. Diastereoselective Construction of Eight-Membered Carbocycles through Palladium-Catalyzed C(sp3)–H Functionalization. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (4) , 1269-1274. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c04244
Benjamin A. Suslick, T. Don Tilley. Olefin Hydroarylation Catalyzed by a Single-Component Cobalt(-I) Complex. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (4) , 1495-1499. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.1c00258
Yongzhuang Wang, Xiaoli Huang, Qin Wang, Yuhai Tang, Silong Xu, Yang Li. Synthesis of Cyclopentadienes for Cyclopentadienyl Ligands via Cp*RhIII-Catalyzed Formal sp3 C–H Activation/Spiroannulations. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (3) , 757-761. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c03982
Zhirong Li, Yonggang Peng, Tao Wu. Palladium-Catalyzed Denitrative α-Arylation of Ketones with Nitroarenes. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (3) , 881-885. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c04104
João C. A. Oliveira, Uttam Dhawa, Lutz Ackermann. Insights into the Mechanism of Low-Valent Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Activation. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (3) , 1505-1515. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04205
Jiayu Mo, Antonis M. Messinis, João C. A. Oliveira, Serhiy Demeshko, Franc Meyer, Lutz Ackermann. Iron-Catalyzed Triazole-Enabled C–H Activation with Bicyclopropylidenes. ACS Catalysis 2021, 11 (3) , 1053-1064. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c04748
L. Anders Hammarback, Benjamin J. Aucott, Joshua T. W. Bray, Ian P. Clark, Michael Towrie, Alan Robinson, Ian J. S. Fairlamb, Jason M. Lynam. Direct Observation of the Microscopic Reverse of the Ubiquitous Concerted Metalation Deprotonation Step in C–H Bond Activation Catalysis. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2021, 143 (3) , 1356-1364. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c10409
Rina Sikari, Gargi Chakraborty, Amit Kumar Guin, Nanda D. Paul. Nickel-Catalyzed [4 + 2] Annulation of Nitriles and Benzylamines by C–H/N–H Activation. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2021, 86 (1) , 279-290. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.0c02069
Smruti Ranjan Mohanty, Bedadyuti Vedvyas Pati, Shyam Kumar Banjare, Gopal Krushna Das Adhikari, Ponneri Chandrababu Ravikumar. Redox-Neutral Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed C–H Activation/Annulation of α,β-Unsaturated Oxime Ether with Alkyne: One-Step Access to Multisubstituted Pyridine. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2021, 86 (1) , 1074-1083. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.0c02558
Amrendra Kumar, Narender Tadigoppula. Synthesis of Unprotected and Highly Substituted Indoles by the Ruthenium(II)-Catalyzed Reaction of Phenyl Isocyanates with Diaryl/Diheteroaryl Alkynes/Ethyl-3-phenyl Propiolates. Organic Letters 2021, 23 (1) , 8-12. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c02793
Xinmou Wang, Yuming Chen, Hongjian Song, Yuxiu Liu, Qingmin Wang. Construction of 2-(2-Arylphenyl)azoles via Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H/C–H Cross-Coupling Reactions and Evaluation of Their Antifungal Activity. Organic Letters 2020, 22 (23) , 9331-9336. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c03551
Asier Carral-Menoyo, Nuria Sotomayor, Esther Lete. Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed C–H Hydroarylation of Alkynes and Alkenes and Beyond: A Versatile Synthetic Tool. ACS Omega 2020, 5 (39) , 24974-24993. https://doi.org/10.1021/acsomega.0c03639
Shan Li, Liansheng Liu, Rong Wang, Yihui Yang, Jing Li, Junfa Wei. Palladium-Catalyzed Oxidative Annulation of Sulfoximines and Arynes by C–H Functionalization as an Approach to Dibenzothiazines. Organic Letters 2020, 22 (19) , 7470-7474. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c02615
Arnab Dey, Chandra M. R. Volla. Traceless Bidentate Directing Group Assisted Cobalt-Catalyzed sp2-C–H Activation and [4 + 2]-Annulation Reaction with 1,3-Diynes. Organic Letters 2020, 22 (19) , 7480-7485. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c02664
Qingkai Yan, Hai Huang, He Zhang, Meng-Hui Li, Dandan Yang, Mao-Ping Song, Jun-Long Niu. Synthesis of 7-Amido Indolines by Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed C–H Bond Amidation. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2020, 85 (17) , 11190-11199. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.0c01259
Sripati Jana, Claire Empel, Chao Pei, Polina Aseeva, Thanh V. Nguyen, Rene M. Koenigs. C–H Functionalization Reactions of Unprotected N-Heterocycles by Gold-Catalyzed Carbene Transfer. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (17) , 9925-9931. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c02230
Marek Čubiňák, Tomáš Tobrman. Room-Temperature Negishi Reaction of Trisubstituted Vinyl Phosphates for the Synthesis of Tetrasubstituted Alkenes. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2020, 85 (16) , 10728-10739. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.0c01254
Asier Carral-Menoyo, Nuria Sotomayor, Esther Lete. Amide-Directed Intramolecular Co(III)-Catalyzed C–H Hydroarylation of Alkenes for the Synthesis of Dihydrobenzofurans with a Quaternary Center. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2020, 85 (15) , 10261-10270. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.0c01413
Xinghua Li, Ting Huang, Ying Song, Yue Qi, Limin Li, Yanping Li, Qi Xiao, Yuanfei Zhang. Co(III)-Catalyzed Annulative Vinylene Transfer via C–H Activation: Three-Step Total Synthesis of 8-Oxopseudopalmatine and Oxopalmatine. Organic Letters 2020, 22 (15) , 5925-5930. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c02016
Andrea Porcheddu, Evelina Colacino, Lidia De Luca, Francesco Delogu. Metal-Mediated and Metal-Catalyzed Reactions Under Mechanochemical Conditions. ACS Catalysis 2020, 10 (15) , 8344-8394. https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.0c00142
Antonis M. Messinis, Lars H. Finger, Lianrui Hu, Lutz Ackermann. Allenes for Versatile Iron-Catalyzed C–H Activation by Weak O-Coordination: Mechanistic Insights by Kinetics, Intermediate Isolation, and Computation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (30) , 13102-13111. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c04837
Fule Wu, Christophe Deraedt, Yann Cornaton, Julia Contreras-Garcia, Mélanie Boucher, Lydia Karmazin, Corinne Bailly, Jean-Pierre Djukic. Making Base-Assisted C–H Bond Activation by Cp*Co(III) Effective: A Noncovalent Interaction-Inclusive Theoretical Insight and Experimental Validation. Organometallics 2020, 39 (14) , 2609-2629. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.organomet.0c00253
Chang-Sheng Wang, Sabrina Di Monaco, Anh Ngoc Thai, Md. Shafiqur Rahman, Benjamin Piaoxiang Pang, Chen Wang, Naohiko Yoshikai. Cobalt/Lewis Acid Catalysis for Hydrocarbofunctionalization of Alkynes via Cooperative C–H Activation. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (29) , 12878-12889. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c06412
Cang Cheng, Xiang Zuo, Dongdong Tu, Bin Wan, Yanghui Zhang. Synthesis of 3,4-Fused Tricyclic Indoles through Cascade Carbopalladation and C–H Amination: Development and Total Synthesis of Rucaparib. Organic Letters 2020, 22 (13) , 4985-4989. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c01513
Benjamin A. Suslick, T. Don Tilley. Mechanistic Interrogation of Alkyne Hydroarylations Catalyzed by Highly Reduced, Single-Component Cobalt Complexes. Journal of the American Chemical Society 2020, 142 (25) , 11203-11218. https://doi.org/10.1021/jacs.0c04072
Rahul A. Jagtap, Suryadev K. Verma, Benudhar Punji. MnBr2-Catalyzed Direct and Site-Selective Alkylation of Indoles and Benzo[h]quinoline. Organic Letters 2020, 22 (12) , 4643-4647. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c01398
Dattatraya H. Dethe, Nagabhushana C B, Arsheed Ahmad Bhat. Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed Ketone-Directed ortho-C–H Activation for the Synthesis of Indene Derivatives. The Journal of Organic Chemistry 2020, 85 (11) , 7565-7575. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.joc.0c00727
Chen Chen, Yuebo Wang, Xiaonan Shi, Wan Sun, Jinghui Zhao, Yan-Ping Zhu, Liying Liu, Bolin Zhu. Palladium-Catalyzed C-2 and C-3 Dual C–H Functionalization of Indoles: Synthesis of Fluorinated Isocryptolepine Analogues. Organic Letters 2020, 22 (11) , 4097-4102. https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.orglett.0c01159
Load more citations
Download PDF
Get e-Alerts
ACS Catalysis
Cite this: ACS Catal. 2016, 6, 2, 498–525
https://doi.org/10.1021/acscatal.5b02344
Published November 24, 2015
Copyright © 2015 American Chemical Society
Request reuse permissions
Article Views
29k
Altmetric
2
Citations
1086
Learn about these metrics
Recommended Articles
3d Transition Metals for C–H Activation
November 27, 2018Chemical Reviews
Parthasarathy Gandeepan, Thomas Müller, Daniel Zell, 
C–H Activation: Toward Sustainability and Applications
February 2, 2021ACS Central Science
Toryn Dalton, Teresa Faber, and Frank Glorius*
Show more
recommended articles
Figures
References
Abstract
Figure 1
Figure 1. Electronegativities of Group 8, 9, and 10 elements according to the Pauling scale.
Scheme 1
Scheme 1. Cyclocobaltated Compounds by Stochiometric C–H or C–F Cleavage Using [Co(CH3)(PMe3)4] (3)
Scheme 2
Scheme 2. Insertion of CO into a C–Co Bond
Scheme 3
Scheme 3. Cobalt-Catalyzed Carbonylative Cyclization of Azobenzene 1
Scheme 4
Scheme 4. Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Tolane (20a)
Scheme 5
Scheme 5. Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Alkynes 20
Scheme 6
Scheme 6. Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation with Aryl Ketimines 28 and Aldimines 29
Scheme 7
Scheme 7. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Internal Alkynes 20
Scheme 8
Scheme 8. Additions of (a) Azoles 37 or (b) Thiazoles 38 to Alkynes 20
Scheme 9
Scheme 9. Cobalt-Catalyzed Annulations with α,β-Unsaturated Imines 42
Scheme 10
Scheme 10. Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkene Hydroarylation with Benzamides 44
Figure 2
Figure 2. NHC preligands utilized for cobalt-catalyzed C–H funtionalizations.
Scheme 11
Scheme 11. Hydroarylation of Alkenes with Linear Selectivity
Scheme 12
Scheme 12. Branched-Selective Hydroarylation of Alkenes 43
Scheme 13
Scheme 13. Proposed Catalytic Cycles for the Branched- and Linear-Selective Hydroarylations of Styrenes 43a
Scheme 14
Scheme 14. Cyclization of Indoles Bearing Olefin Tethers (rr: Regioisomeric Ratio)
Scheme 15
Scheme 15. Alkyation of Aryl Pyridines with Aziridines 56 (a) and Aldimines (b)
Scheme 16
Scheme 16. Cobalt-Catalyzed C-4-Selective Alkylation of Pyridine (58)
Scheme 17
Scheme 17. Enantioselective Hydroarylation of Alkenes 43
Scheme 18
Scheme 18. Intramolecular and Intermolecular Hydroacylations
Scheme 19
Scheme 19. Hydroacylation of Aldehydes with 1,3-Dienes*
Scheme [a][Co(dcpe)I2] (5.0 mol %), In (20 mol %), InBr3 (5.0 mol %), DCE/EtOAc (3:1), 50 °C, 20–24 h; dcpe = 1,2-bis(dicyclohexylphosphino)ethane.
Scheme *Z/E selectivity >20:1, unless otherwise noted.
Scheme 20
Scheme 20. Proposed Catalytic Cycles for the Cobalt-Catalyzed Hydroacylation of Dienes
Scheme 21
Scheme 21. Hydroacylation of Alkenesa
Scheme aLinear to branched (l/b) ratio >20:1, unless otherwise noted.
Scheme 22
Scheme 22. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for Hydroacylation of Olefins 43
Scheme 23
Scheme 23. Enantioselective Intramolecular Hydroacylation of Ketones 81
Scheme 24
Scheme 24. Enantioselective Intramolecular Hydroacylation
Scheme 25
Scheme 25. C–H Arylation with Aryl Carbamates 85, Sulfamates 86, and Chlorides 87
Scheme 26
Scheme 26. Imine-Directed Arylation with Aryl Chlorides 87
Scheme 27
Scheme 27. (a) C–H Arylation of Benzamides 44, (b) Synthesis of Biaryl Tetrazoles 93
Scheme 28
Scheme 28. C–H Arylation of Aryl Tetrazoles 91 by C–H/C–O Bond Cleavage
Scheme 29
Scheme 29. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Arylation
Scheme 30
Scheme 30. Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkenylation with Cyclic Alkenyl Acetates 94 by C–H/C–O Cleavage
Scheme [a]46d (10 mol %) used at 60 °C.
Scheme 31
Scheme 31. Stereo-Convergent Alkenylation with Acyclic Enol Acetates 94
Scheme 32
Scheme 32. Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkenylation with Enol (a) Phosphates 96, (b) Carbamates 97, and (c) Carbonates 98
Scheme 33
Scheme 33. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Alkenylation with Enol Esters
Scheme 34
Scheme 34. Direct Alkylation of Benzamides 44
Scheme 35
Scheme 35. C–H Alkylation with Alkyl Chlorides 101
Scheme 36
Scheme 36. Benzylation of Indole 24d with Phosphate 103a
Scheme 37
Scheme 37. Direct C–H Alkylation of Ketimines 28 with (a) Primary and (b) Secondary Alkyl Halides
Scheme 38
Scheme 38. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Alkylation with Organic Electrophiles
Scheme 39
Scheme 39. High-Valent Cobalt(III) Complexes
Scheme 40
Scheme 40. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Addition Reactions with Aldimines 117
Scheme 41
Scheme 41. Additions with 2-Pyrimidyl Indoles 24
Scheme 42
Scheme 42. C–H Functionalization by Conjugate Addition to Michael Acceptors 120
Scheme 43
Scheme 43. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Addition (L = 2-Phpy)
Scheme 44
Scheme 44. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Hydroarylation of Alkynes
Scheme 45
Scheme 45. Pyrroloindolones 129 via C–H Alkenylation/Annulation
Scheme 46
Scheme 46. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Hydroarylation/Annulation Reaction
Scheme 47
Scheme 47. Cobalt-Catalyzed C–H Activation/Annulation Cascade
Scheme 48
Scheme 48. Experimental Evidence for the Reversibility of the C–H Functionalization
Scheme 49
Scheme 49. Proposed Mechanism of Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Indazole Synthesis
Scheme 50
Scheme 50. C–H Amidation of (Hetero)arenes
Scheme 51
Scheme 51. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed Amidation
Scheme 52
Scheme 52. C–H Cyanation of Arenes and Heteroarenes
Scheme 53
Scheme 53. C–H Cyanation of 2-Pyridylpropene (155)
Scheme 54
Scheme 54. C–H Cyanation of 6-Arylpurines 158 with N-Cyanosuccinimide (157)
Scheme 55
Scheme 55. Plausible Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed C–H Cyanation
Scheme 56
Scheme 56. Aminocarbonylation of Aryl Pyrazoles 162 with (a) Isocyanates 163, and (b) Acyl Azides 165
Scheme 57
Scheme 57. C–H Halogenation
Scheme 58
Scheme 58. Cobalt-Catalyzed Allylation with (a) Allyl Carbonates 171, (b) Allyl Acetates 173, and (c) Allyl Alcohols 175
Scheme [a]5 mol % of 115, 40 mol % of AgSbF6, 20 mol % of PivOH, 80 °C, 16 h.
Scheme [b]110 °C.
Scheme [c]175 (10 equiv).
Scheme 59
Scheme 59. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Cobalt-Catalyzed Allylation
Scheme 60
Scheme 60. C–H Alkynylation of Indoles 24
Scheme [a]Reaction performed at 80 °C.
Scheme 61
Scheme 61. Isoquinoline Synthesis from Oximes 184 under Cobalt(III) Catalysis
Scheme [a]15 min.
Scheme [b]In HFIP.
Scheme 62
Scheme 62. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Amidation with Dioxazolone 185aa
Scheme a186 (2.5 mol %).
Scheme 63
Scheme 63. Cobalt-Catalyzed Oxidative Alkyne Annulations
Scheme 64
Scheme 64. Mechanistic Considerations for Aminiquinoline-Directed Alkyne Anuulation
Scheme 65
Scheme 65. Aminoquinoline-Directed Alkene Annulations
Scheme 66
Scheme 66. Cobalt-Catalyzed Isoindolinone Synthesis
Scheme 67
Scheme 67. Proposed Catalytic Cycle for the Oxidative C–H Alkenylation
Scheme 68
Scheme 68. C–H Carbonylation of Benzamides 187
Scheme 69
Scheme 69. (a) Cobalt-Catalyzed Alkoxylation of Benzamides 201, (b) Directing Group Removal
Scheme 70
Scheme 70. Cobalt(III)-Catalyzed Annulation with Diazocompounds 205
Scheme 71
Scheme 71. Proposed Reaction Mechanism for the Cp*Co(III)-Catalyzed C–H Activation/Annulation Reaction
Scheme 72
Scheme 72. C–H Alkylations with Tosylhydrazons 210
Scheme [a]With NaOtBu and DMF instead of LiOtBu and 1,4-dioxane.