# Paragraph Topic Extractor and Question Generator

You are an expert in academic writing and text analysis. Your task is to extract the main topic from a given paragraph of an academic review and then generate a single comprehensive question based on that topic. Follow these steps carefully:

1. Read the provided paragraph carefully.
2. Analyze its content to identify the main topic.
3. Formulate a concise topic statement.
4. Based on the extracted topic, create a single comprehensive question that can guide the extraction of detailed information from the paragraph.
5. Translate the question into Chinese.

Output your results in the following XML format:

```xml
<analysis>
  <original_paragraph>
    [Insert the original paragraph here]
  </original_paragraph>
  
  <topic_extraction>
    <step1_initial_thoughts>
      [Provide your initial thoughts about the paragraph's content]
    </step1_initial_thoughts>
    
    <step2_key_concepts>
      [List the key concepts or ideas present in the paragraph]
    </step2_key_concepts>
    
    <step3_topic_formulation>
      [Explain how you're formulating the topic based on the key concepts]
    </step3_topic_formulation>
    
    <extracted_topic>
      [State the extracted topic in a clear, concise manner]
    </extracted_topic>
  </topic_extraction>

  <question_generation>
    <step1_question_formulation>
      [Explain how you're formulating the question based on the extracted topic]
    </step1_question_formulation>
    
    <generated_question>
      <english>[Present the final version of your generated question in English]</english>
      <chinese>[Present the Chinese translation of the generated question]</chinese>
    </generated_question>
  </question_generation>
</analysis>
```

Remember to:
- Be thorough in your analysis and explanation.
- Ensure that the extracted topic accurately represents the main idea of the paragraph.
- Create a single, comprehensive question that can elicit detailed information about the topic from the paragraph.
- Use academic language appropriate for the field of study.
- Provide both English and Chinese versions of the generated question.

<file-attachment-contents filename="Paragraphs.txt"> 
<Paragraphs>
2. THE ACQUAINTANCE OF COKE
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To
2.1. Composition, Distribution, and Consequence of Coke Deposition
The exact constituents of coke are not well resolved because of the complex process of the coke formation. Most studies broadly attributed coke as the deposition of undesirable organic compounds. (38) A recent study with gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and thermogravimetric (TG) analysis pin down the detailed components of coke under PDH on PtSn catalysts. It was suggested that the coke mainly consists of three kind of species: aliphatics, aromatics, and pregraphite. (39) The proportion of each kind of coke and species under their reaction condition were given, and the aliphatic cokes take up the larger part of coke deposition, with the ratio of C/H around 1.5. However, a coke hydrogenation study indicated that the species of coke deposition vary on different catalysts. (40) It is suggested that the species could be atomic carbon or aromatics on Pt/Al2O3 and C3 species on PtSn/Al2O3 catalyst, respectively. Overall, the composition of cokes varies with reaction condition and catalytic system without a universal definition.
The coke distribution is all over the catalysts, including both active metal and inert support. The temperature-programmed oxidation (TPO) analysis (22,41,42) revealed that there are two peaks when coke elimination happens, as shown in Figure 2a. One peak is around 325 °C, which is related to the coke on metal, and contains more hydrogens. The other one is at higher temperature around 425 °C, which is ascribed to the coke on the support. Moreover, the coke on the support can be further categorized into two types: one is easy to remove, and the other one, mainly graphitic coke, is more resistant, as shown in Figure 2b. (43) The coke on metal is easier to remove by oxidization than the counterpart on the support. The coke at different locations has distinct effects, and catalyst deactivation is mainly caused by coke on metal. (44) However, the coke on the support does not have a noticeable influence on activity and stability. This uncovers a guiding principle that the coke location is an important factor, not the absolute amount of coke. Specifically, Kumar et al. reported that cokes on Pt–Sn/SBA-15 catalyst were nearly 3 times the counterparts on Pt/SBA-15, however the former catalyst has better activity, selectivity and stability. (45) This phenomenon is partly explained by the fact that coke can be transferred from metal (type1) to support (type2) and keep active sites free from coking, (39,43,46,47) as shown in Figure 2c. Although more coke is yielded, the activity is not affected because the support accommodates most cokes. In the end, the coke distribution is a factor which can be adjusted to prolong the life of catalyst.
One of most direct observations of coke influence is that the catalyst becomes black after the reaction. It is quite straightforward to conclude that cokes will block the active sites and destabilize the catalysts from experimental observation. However, DFT calculations reveal more information on the coke effect at the molecular level. The calculations demonstrate that the energy barrier for dehydrogenation significantly increase when carbon atom adsorption at the nearby site. Moreover, the coadsorbed C atoms downshift the d-band center of Pt, which consequently decreases the activity toward C–H bond activation according to d-band theory. (48) More interesting, the coke seem to have some positive effects on the selectivity of propylene. The DFT calculations reveal that the adsorption energy of propylene on the graphene partially covered Pt (111) surface is significant lower than on clean surface. This gives a hint that the desorption of propylene is easier on the coked covered surface than the clean surface, which leads to good selectivity. (42) Our previous DFT-based kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) simulation indicated that the coke precursors affect the geometry and number of exposed active sites, leading to lower activity but higher selectivity and lower coking rate. (34) This is similar to doping of catalysts by an inactive metal, such as Sn and Cu. Therefore, the origin of higher selectivity and lower coking rate in the steady state than in the quick deactivation state could be attributed to the electronic effect and geometric effect introduced by coke deposition itself.
In this section, the composition, distribution, and effect of coking are described in detail, as they are the prerequisite knowledge to effectively curb coke and extend durability of catalyst. The composition and distribution are the intrinsic nature of coke. There are also more uncertainties regarding these two aspects because of the dependence on reaction condition and catalyst. Although the exact composition of coke is still under debate, the precursors of coke are most likely to be from the deep dehydrogenation. Therefore, the prevention of the precursor could cut off coke formation from beginning. The distribution of coke has distinct effects on the stability. The methods which induce the facile coke between the catalyst and the support could potentially enhance stability. The coke effects on the activity and durability of the catalyst are devastating and inevitable. Therefore, it is urgently needed to develop an effective strategy to inhibit coke formation, as discussed in section 3.
2.2. Kinetics of Coke Formation
Kinetics has an obvious importance in understanding the coke formation process. Unfortunately, this aspect has been seldom discussed or completely neglected in previous reviews. First of all, the coke is formed immediately when the catalyst is exposed to propane, as shown in Figure 3. Operando Raman spectroscopy analysis of PDH on Pt/Al2O3 shows that the coke forms rapidly in the first few minutes, and then the intensity of the coke species slowly drops to a constant over an hour. (49,50) The initial coke formation quickly covers the active sites. Then, the occupation of available sites significantly reduced the rates of coke formation after initial stage. (51) However, the process of coke formation is complex because various intermediates during PDH can undergo deep reaction and lead to coke formation. Nevertheless, several kinetic models of coke formation have been proposed.
was given by Voorhies. (52)Cc is the concentration of coke, t is time, A and n are constants depending on the reaction condition, such as catalyst, temperature, and pressure of reactant. This expression fitted the several experiments well with different value of A and n. (52) However, coke concentration is exponential function with only one independent variable, t, in model A. Other empirical formulas were further developed. (53) The deactivation function, φc, was introduced to account for the effect of catalyst deactivation on the formation rate of coke as follows:
(B1)
several formula of deactivation function, φc, were tested by 50 experiments and
(B2)
fitted the data best. (54)rc0 is the initial rate of coke formation. Although model A and B could fit some experimental data well, little progress has been achieved with regard to understanding the coke formation in detail. Moreover, the physical meaning of the constants is absent, which hinders the rational restraint of cokes.
A more sophisticated model called monolayer–multilayer coke growth model (MMCGM) was raised by Nam et al., which delivers deeper insight in describing the process of coke formation. (55) It is used to describe the formation of coke in PDH widely. (51,56,57) In those studies, the coke has been divided into two types: the monolayer coke and the multilayer coke. The monolayer coke quickly covers the active sites and deactivates the catalyst, and its formation rate is related to the number of free active sites. In addition, the multilayer coke began to grow as soon as the monolayer coke formed, and the rate of multilayer coke formation is related to the amount of monolayer:
(C1)
(C2)
(C3)
Cc is the total coke concentration, Cm is the concentration of monolayer coke, CM is the concentration of multilayer coke, Cmax is the maximum concentration of monolayer coke, ki is kinetic constant, and ni is the kinetic order.
Moreover, the MMCGM was further improved by Annaland et al. (58) They performed a dual coke growth kinetic model to describe the coke formation. In their model, the polymerization of adsorbed propylene was considered as the pathway of coke formation. First, propylene formed a propylene dimer (PD). Then PD reacts with propylene to form coke precursor (CP). The monolayer coke is formed through the reaction between CP and PD or propylene. Finally, the multilayer coke is formed from monolayer coke. The formation of coke deposits is an oligomerization process. Although the mechanism is straightforward, the mode is simplified with only considering propylene as the source of coke. However, it still does not fully describe the complex reaction of coke formation in PDH.
A more thorough kinetic model was investigated by Li et al. (59) The deep dehydrogenation and crack from propane to the C atom and the polymerization of propylene are both considered. Moreover, the effect of hydrogen on coke formation rate is also introduced. The mechanism is represented as
Considering the effect of H2 in preventing coking, the partial pressure of H2 is included in the formula for the rate of coke formation. Besides, only propylene is considered a precursor. Then the coking rate is written as
(D1)
(D2)
rc is the rate of coke formation, ac is the activity of the catalyst for coking, k is coking reaction rate constant, PC3H6 and PH2 are the partial pressures of C3H6 and H2, K is adsorption equilibrium constants of H2, Cc is the concentration of coke, and Cmax is the maximum concentration of coke. This model was used to simulate the deactivation of PDH in pore structure catalysts recently. (60) Besides, the individual site poisoning model was developed for coke formation, which indicates that the rate of coke deposition is proportional to the available sites for coke formation. (61)
The evolutions from Model A to D gradually increase the sophistication and reach for more universal description. Models A and B only discussed the relationship between the coke concentration and time. The fitness of the models are valid within a range of parameters. However, the models lack a sound interpretation of the mechanism of coke formation. However, MMCGM divides the coke into two types. The influences of different kind of cokes are explicitly included in the expression. The improved model based on MMCGM by Annaland et al. considers the details of coke formation as polymerization of propylene in PDH. Model D includes the polymerization of propylene and C atom adsorption as the formation of coke. Therefore, these two remedies pin down to detailed pathways of coke formation which make them more realistic for description of coke in PDH. Although those models show certain success, all of these models are still insufficient to fully cover the process of coke formation because of the extreme complexity of cokes which can arise from reactants, products, intermediates, or combinations of them. It is envisioned that the effective cooperation between advanced experimental techniques and microkinetic/kMC simulation which included all relevant elementary steps could further push the boundary of coke kinetics.
</Paragraphs>
</file-attachment-contents>
