I'm going to give you a scientific literature. Then I'm going to ask you some questions about it. I'd like you to first write down exact quotes of parts of the document word by word that would help answer the question, and then I'd like you to answer the question using facts from the quoted content. Do not omit any relevant information from the text, and avoid introducing any falsehoods or assumptions that aren't directly supported by the literature. Here is the literature, in <literature></literature> XML tags:

<literature>


7. Conclusions and Future Directions
ARTICLE SECTIONSJump To Recent advances in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane with soft oxidants over a variety of catalysts are reviewed in this work. Figure 32 summarizes and compares the catalytic performance of key catalysts explored in each reaction route in the form of the correlation between selectivity and conversion. In general, transition metal/metal oxides and metal oxides from the main group elements have been extensively studied for the ODHP reaction with soft oxidants, such as CO2, N2O, S-containing compounds, and halogen/halides. For CO2- and N2OODHP, the explored catalyst systems are analogous. However, differences in inherent properties of reactions and difficulties in dealing with corrosiveness have led to complications in advancing the research, resulting in unique challenges and future research directions for each route. In general, future efforts should be devoted to designing catalysts that can facilitate the activation of the CH bond in C3H8 with good regenerability, as well as to renovating the reaction systems that can reconcile the need for industrial processes with challenges associated with utilizing various acid gases.
CO2ODHP, the major efforts have been devoted toward exploring redox-type and nonredox-type catalysts and developing compositionstructurecatalysis relationship. As a representative of redox-type catalysts, CrOx exhibits higher C3H6 selectivity at elevated C3H8 conversion among all catalysts at 550 C, as presented in Figure 32A. The activity is found to depend on the redox cycles, dispersion of Cr species, surface Cr density, and nature of the support. The catalytic performance of other redox-type catalysts, VOx, has not yet reached high C3H8 conversion at 550 C (i.e., >20%), though high C3H6 selectivity (i.e., 95%98%) is achieved at low conversion (Figure 32A). The non-redox-type catalyst, Ga2O3, shows comparable selectivity to CrOx below 40% conversion. Although Ga2O3 can be reduced upon contact with C3H8 molecules, its oxidation state remains stable during reaction. Instead, the reaction appears to proceed through the proposed heterolytic dissociation mechanism. (127) Combined with these developed redox- and nonredox-type catalysts, the zeolite-supported counterparts are also promising candidates (Figure 32A). Other catalysts that have been explored include Fe, precious metal, Mo2C, and Ni catalysts. Screening tests and mechanistic studies on these materials shed light on their roles in the selective activation of the CH bond. For example, the Mo oxycarbide, formed through CO2-induced oxidation of Mo2C, favors the activation of methylene CH bond in C3H8 molecules; (160) the presence of Pd can promote the oxidation activity of redox sites such as Ce4+  Ce3+, through which it promotes not only C3H8 conversion, but also inhibits Pd-catalyzed DRP reactions to undesired CO and H2, leading to well-preserved C3H6 selectivity. (171) The presence of CO2 shows an overall promoting effect on C3H6 formation. Major positive roles of CO2 include: (i) completing redox cycles, though the oxidation potential is weak, (ii) shifting the reaction equilibrium of ODHP to the product side by consuming the produced H2 via RWGS, and (iii) serving as an agent for coke removal by the reverse Boudouard reaction. Competitive adsorption between C3H8 and CO2 is known for CrOx (24) and HZSM-5-supported Ga2O3. (127) However, the presence of CO2 also enhances C3H6 production on CrOx as a result of promoted C3H6 desorption. (24) Despite these achievements, there are still elusive points that need to be addressed in future studies:(i) Identification of redox cycles on redox-type catalysts. In the case of redox-type catalysts, there exist two different redox scenarios, including Cr6+  Cr3+/Cr2+ and Cr3+  Cr2+, which seems to depend on the nature of the support and metalsupport interactions. Such divergence necessitates the efforts to develop an in-depth understanding of the correlations.
(ii) Reaction mechanisms. Liu et al. have observed the resemblance of DRIFT spectra between DHP and the reverse reaction C3H6 hydrogenation in terms of strong adsorbed surface species. (109) A new intermediate propenyl-vanadium (VC3H5) has been proposed as an alternative key intermediate for CO2ODHP by taking the elementary steps of C3H6 hydrogenation into consideration, yet still requiring solid evidence. Besides, side reactions are involved in addition to CO2ODHP reaction, such as RWGS and reverse Boudouard reaction. Continuous efforts have been put forth to identify the intermediates and plausible reaction paths of each reaction by both experimental and computational approaches. However, there is a lack of studies in clarifying the key intermediates and dominating reaction paths by taking the entire reaction network of CO2ODHP into consideration. In particular, this requires a sufficient amount of in situ characterization techniques to fill the gap.
(iii) Competitive adsorption between CO2, C3H8, and C3H6. There is a competitive adsorption between these molecules, which impacts the C3H8 adsorption and C3H6 yield. Dopants that enable the balance between C3H8 and CO2 adsorption and inhibition of strong C3H6 adsorption are desired.
(iv) Catalyst deactivation and regeneration. For CO2ODHP, rapid deactivation occurs as a consequence of reduction of active sites and coke formation. Although catalyst stability and regenerability have been examined, testing of long-term stability is rather scarce, nor have regeneration guidelines been comprehensively covered for different catalyst systems. Therefore, endeavors should be made in developing robust, coke-resistant catalysts that meet the requirement of practical implementation in the mid to long-term.
VOx and Fe-containing zeolites are reported to be the most superior catalysts for N2OODHP (Figure 32B). Because of the absence of thermodynamic restraints, these Fe-containing zeolite catalysts show activity at a relatively lower temperature of 400 C. Notwithstanding, potential catalysts that have been tested for N2OODHP are still scarce, and more catalyst screening is needed in future studies. For example, there are only a few works regarding metals other than iron-supported/modified zeolites which have been reported. Also, while there are multiple reports regarding MFI and BEA zeolite topology for N2OODHP, the effects of other zeolite topologies remain unknown.
Similar to CO2ODHP, deactivation and regeneration of catalysts in N2OODHP remains a challenge. As discussed in section 3.5.3, CO2 can serve as an agent for coke removal, thereby enhancing the catalyst stability, while N2O cannot. Together with the variation in oxidation potential between N2O and CO2, these are likely the reasons why similar catalysts show worse stability in N2OODHP. Although a few studies have reported the rapid deactivation of iron-containing zeolite catalysts and vanadia oxide-based catalysts for N2OODHP, deactivation studies regarding molybdenum oxide catalysts have been scarcely touched. Thus, further study of these catalysts is needed to address the challenges of stability of catalysts for N2OODHP route. (180183,186,187) For iron-containing zeolite catalysts, there have been studies suggesting that the nature and strength of acid sites have significant impacts on the rate of deactivation, implying that catalyst stability can be further improved based on catalyst design. (182,211) Noteworthily, dehydrogenation using N2O as a soft oxidant has been studied for other alkanes as well, such as ethane, butane, or isobutane, of which isobutane dehydrogenation shows better catalytic performance than propane dehydrogenation using N2O. (211,289,300303) Therefore, further study to improve catalyst stability seems to be warranted, as dehydrogenation using N2O may not only offer additional ways to subvert challenges faced by O2 oxidant but also may provide a method to utilize N2O.
The introduction of exogenous mild oxidizers is a potentially selective route for DHP. Catalytic oxyhalogenation is a promising route for single-step C3H6 production and yields of up to 55% have been achieved. (49,50) Specifically, oxychlorination chemistry over CeO2 and metal phosphate-based catalysts show good selectivity (up to 95%) and conversion (up to 70% at 500 C) in comparison to conventional ODHP (Figure 32C). In contrast, the selective activation of propane in oxybromination chemistry is impractical either because of poor selectivity or insufficient stability of catalysts. (45,251) CeO2 possesses strong oxidizing characteristics and results in the highest reactivity in oxychlorination reactions. The overoxidation potential of Ce-based catalysts can be improved by heteroatom doping into the CeO2 structure. The high C3H6 yield (i.e., 55%) and selectivity (i.e., 80%) for 8% NiOCeO2 are mainly due to a balanced redox ability at 500 C. (49) On the other hand, metal phosphates such as CrPO4 (yield = 50% at 500 C) are moderate oxidizers, leading to high selectivity (i.e., 95%) but lower activity than CeO2 under identical conditions. (50) To summarize, an optimal propane oxychlorination catalyst should exhibit moderate redox properties so that it enables alkane activation but does not favor alkane overoxidation, combustion, and evolution of Cl2, while possessing fast dehydrochlorination kinetics.
The gaseous sulfur compounds, on the other hand, act as effective DHP mediators because of their high affinity for hydrogen abstraction from a hydrocarbon molecule (Figure 32D). C3H6 yield rises up to 81% over Al2O3 at 750 C and 93% over CoMo/Al2O3 at 450 C, indicating a potential to revolutionize propane dehydrogenation chemistry. (231,232) Interestingly, the highest reported yield for C3H6 (either in DHP or ODHP) in various patents are over Al2O3 and CoMo/Al2O3, which are used in industrial Claus or hydrodesulfurization process. However, the exact nature of the active sites is still unclear from the studies to date because of the lack of catalyst characterization and mechanistic studies. (40,222,242245) Because of the extremely corrosive nature of sulfur or halogen, operando and in situ techniques are seldom used. The potential scalability of the underlying process and corrosion issues combined with the recovery process of sulfur, halogen, or hydrogen halide products will require suitable materials, reactors, and sophisticated process engineering. Sulfur-mediated dehydrogenation chemistry in particular has shown potential to selectively activate propane by capitalizing on abundant natural gas reserves. (25,26) However, the susceptibility of the material to be attacked by sulfur, halogens, HX, and halogenated products requires testing of materials under actual reaction conditions. To deal with the above-mentioned hurdles, significant endeavors should be devoted to developing a sufficiently active and stable catalyst with an in-depth understanding of the structureactivity relationship, as well as reaction kinetics. This is especially true for various recent industry efforts outlined in a number of patents, where efforts toward developing innovative strategies, such as either using gaseous sulfur or some sulfur compound (H2S/S2/COS) with O2 have ensued. However, catalyst characterization, stability tests, structureactivity relationships, and reaction kinetics are nearly nonexistent in the patent literature. The absence of detailed kinetic studies makes it impossible to have information about the reaction network for sulfur-based ODHP. Therefore, this process requires the systematic kinetic and operando studies (such as PEPICO) to understand the genesis of sulfur-based byproducts obtained in the process. Furthermore, techno-economic analysis is scarce and should be performed comparing the best catalyst (or processes) with existing technologies, such as DHP and ODHP.A comparison of catalytic performance is also made between O2ODHP and ODHP with soft oxidants in the form of selectivityconversion correlation over the array of developed catalysts, as presented in Figure 33. In comparison to O2ODHP, ODHP with soft oxidants shows comparable C3H6 selectivity under the same range of C3H8 conversion (i.e., <20%). In particular, CO2ODHP exhibits higher selectivity among all reaction routes. Moreover, the high selectivity, namely, >80%, can be well retained at the C3H8 conversion as high as 53%. The C3H8 conversion of other reaction routes with soft oxidants, such as SO2-mediated DHP and oxyhalogenation can also reach high values (i.e., 3070%), yet with lower selectivity (i.e., 5080%). Noteworthily, this way of comparison is not completely fair, as it overlooks the effects of other critical parameters, such as temperature, feed compositions, GHSV, etc. However, a general trend of activityselectivity spans of each reaction route has been revealed and provided perspective for further research in the dehydrogenation of propane and other light alkanes.
While there is still significant progress to be made in the development of better ODHP catalysts, theoretical studies in the literature have provided useful insights toward this problem with regards to mechanistic understanding and catalyst design principles. With CO2 for example, its dissociation, hydrogenation, and poisoning on the surface can all factor prominently toward its catalytic activity. In addition, there are a number of competing reactions that can govern the selectivity to the ODHP product that also should be considered. (304) Modeling these pathways through microkinetics or kinetic Monte Carlo has been shown to be very useful in that regard. (283) On the other hand, descriptors, when available, have also proven to be useful when there is a need to screen across a large number of potential catalysts. (292,298) However, high-throughput screening of catalysts for alkane conversion has remained primarily focused on CH activation, with far less study on the catalyst reoxidation step. (269) In addition, investigations into the catalyst stability using soft oxidants have yet to feature prominently in modeling efforts, which is relevant for the practical applications. In conclusion, additional theoretical studies in these areas would be highly beneficial to move the field forward and guide experimental efforts, particularly in finding catalysts suitable for corrosive or less-studied oxidants, such as NOx, SOx, and halides.
Efforts are also devoted to developing alternative technologies beyond packed catalyst bed, such as chemical looping and membrane reactor. Chemical looping offers opportunities for process intensification and energy loss minimization, which is of significance in future commercialization. (305) Current progress focuses on the feasibility of O2-assisted dehydrogenation of light alkanes. (306,307) Membrane reactors are emerging as an active research direction in light alkane conversion, such as propane dehydrogenation (308,309) and methane conversion, (310) because it enables the process intensification by integrating oxidant permeability and catalytic activity in one unit. (311) In ODHP, this novel reactor can achieve a uniform distribution of oxidant, thereby resulting in inhibited overoxidation and enhanced C3H6 selectivity. Kawi et al. have applied a novel hollow fiber catalytic membrane reactor for O2ODHP, in which the membrane reactor was fabricated by integrating BaBi0.05Ci0.8Nb0.15O3δ (BBCN) perovskite hollow fiber membrane with silica-supported isolated Co2+ catalyst. (311) The fabricated membrane reactor has achieved C3H6 yield and selectivity of 50% and 74%, respectively, at 650 C with the TOS at 50 h. The key aspect to guarantee a higher C3H6 selectivity is to optimize the C3H8/O2 ratio to maintain high C3H8 conversion and to avoid overoxidation. Specifically, the C3H8 feeding rate should match the oxygen permeation through the membrane. The soft oxidants discussed in this review have similar kinetic diameters (i.e., 320360 pm), which are all smaller than the reagent C3H8 (i.e., 430 pm) and target product C3H6 (i.e., 450 pm), corroborating the feasibility of utilizing membrane reactors for further enhancement in activity and selectivity.


</literature>

Here are the question lists, in <questions></questions>XML tags:
<questions>


Analyze the recent advances in oxidative dehydrogenation of propane (ODHP) using soft oxidants, comparing the performance of various catalyst systems (including transition metal/metal oxides and main group element metal oxides) in terms of selectivity and conversion. Additionally, discuss the persistent challenges in this field, such as corrosiveness and inherent reaction properties, and elaborate on the key areas for future research and development, including strategies for improving C-H bond activation, enhancing catalyst regenerability, and renovating reaction systems to optimize ODHP processes.


</questions>

First, you need to sequentially extract any quotes in the literature that are most relevant to each question, and print them in numbered order, separated by newlines. Quotes should be relatively brief. Do not attempt to summarize or answer questions at this stage, but simply repeat exactly what the corresponding part of the literature says.

Please enclose the full list of quotes in <quotes></quotes> XML tags. If there are no relevant quotes, write "No relevant quotes" instead.

Then, answer the question, starting with "Answer:".  Do not include or reference quoted content verbatim in the answer. Don't say "According to Quote [1]" when answering. Do not write reference number of quotes after answer. Put your answer to the user inside <EnglishVersionAnswer></EnglishVersionAnswer> XML tags. Output formatted text, with line breaks for each question.Separate quotes and answers with a blank line. Provide the answers to all questions in English. After completing the English answers, translate all those answers into Chinese and provide the Chinese version inside <ChineseVersionAnswer></ChineseVersionAnswer> XML tags.

Thus, the format of your overall response should look like what's shown between the <example></example> tags.  Make sure to follow the formatting and spacing exactly.

<example>

<quotes>

[1] "Company X reported revenue of $12 million in 2021."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Company X earned $12 million in 2021.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.X公司在2021年赚了1200万美元。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

<quotes>

[1] "Almost 90% of revenue came from widget sales, with gadget sales making up the remaining 10%."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

2.Almost 90% of it came from widget sales.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

2.几乎90%的收入来自小部件销售。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>

</example>


If the question cannot be answered by the document, say so.If deemed necessary, the answer to the question can be extended entirely from the content of the document.

Answer all of the questions immediately without preamble. 