Solid-state NMR studies of internuclear correlations for characterizing catalytic materials
Understanding the nature of heterogeneous catalysts is critical for the rational design of highly active catalysts, which necessitates in-depth characterization of the structure and properties of catalysts as well as reaction mechanisms. Solid-state NMR correlation spectroscopy is becoming increasingly recognized as a powerful tool in the study of catalysts and catalytic reactions because of its capability to provide atomic-level insights into the structure, interaction and dynamics of molecules by establishing connectivity and proximity between the same or distinct nuclei. This tutorial review focuses on the fundamentals and state-of-the-art applications of solid-state NMR correlation techniques to structural characterization of catalytic materials including zeolites, metal oxides, organometallic complexes and MOFs as well as relevant studies regarding synthesis, synergistic catalysis, host–guest interactions and reaction mechanisms. Various correlation NMR methods that have been employed to address the challenging issues in heterogeneous catalysis are highlighted. This review concludes with outlooks on the promising applications and potential developments of solid-state NMR correlation spectroscopy in catalytic materials.
Guodong Qi
Guodong Qi received his PhD in 2014 from the Wuhan Institute of Physics and Mathematics (WIPM), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). He presently works at the Innovation Academy for Precision Measurement Science and Technology, CAS. His current research interest is focused on solid-state NMR characterization of metal-modified zeolites.
Qiang Wang
Qiang Wang obtained his PhD in 2010 from the University of Lille I and in 2011 from the Wuhan Institute of Physics and Mathematics (WIPM), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). He was a professor at WIPM (2018–2019). Since 2020, he has been a professor at the Innovation Academy for Precision Measurement Science and Technology, CAS. His research interests are methodology development of solid-state NMR and its application to zeolites and metal oxides.
Jun Xu
Jun Xu received his PhD in 2007 from the Wuhan Institute of Physics and Mathematics (WIPM), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). He spent one year as a visiting scholar in Cardiff University, UK. He was a professor at WIPM (2014–2019). Since 2020, he has been a professor at the Innovation Academy for Precision Measurement Science and Technology, CAS. His research interests are the development and application of solid-state NMR techniques for heterogeneous catalysts and reaction mechanism.
Feng Deng
Feng Deng obtained his PhD (1996) from the Wuhan Institute of Physics and Mathematics (WIPM), Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS). After his postdoctoral research (1997–1998) at the Department of Chemistry, Texas A&M University (with Prof. James F. Haw), he has worked at WIPM as a professor since 1999. He is currently a professor at the Innovation Academy for Precision Measurement Science and Technology, CAS. His research interests include solid-state NMR methodology and its application to heterogeneous catalysis.
Key learning points
(1) Challenging issues in solid-state NMR characterization of catalytic materials.
(2) Basics of solid-state NMR correlation spectroscopy techniques.
(3) Advanced methods to obtain multidimensional correlation solid-state NMR spectra.
(4) Correlation of solid-state NMR signals with structural features of catalytic materials.
(5) Challenges and opportunities in the application of solid-state NMR correlation spectroscopy techniques.
1. Introduction
Heterogeneous catalysis plays an essential role in modern industrial processes in the fields of chemistry, energy and environment by providing a sustainable route for the efficient utilization of resources and production of desired products with mitigation of environmental impact. Heterogeneous catalysts cover a wide range of materials in solid form. Inorganic solid catalysts such as zeolites and metal oxides have found significant applications in various catalytic reactions from traditional petrochemical processes to burgeoning biomass conversion, while the emerging inorganic–organic hybrid materials such as metal–organic frameworks (MOFs) show great potential as solid catalysts due to their close similarity to zeolites. The success of a catalytic process depends on the discovery of efficient catalysts bearing specific properties and function, which enables the conversion of reactants at a high rate and in a selective way.
Structural characterization is a prerequisite for a better understanding of the catalyst properties and catalytic phenomena. Solid catalysts often feature non-uniform active components and a variety of structures composed of frameworks, pores/cages and surfaces/interfaces. For example, the acid sites including Brønsted and Lewis acid sites in zeolites are heterogeneously distributed in zeolite channels or cavities, which correlate with the silica to alumina ratio of a framework. In the case of metal supported and metal complex grafted oxide catalysts, the active sites are formed at the perimeter interface between metals and supports. The structural and compositional complexity of solid catalysts brings great challenges for their detailed characterization.
Among the spectroscopic techniques that can be utilized for the characterization of solid catalysts, solid-state NMR (SSNMR) spectroscopy has emerged as a powerful technique with atomic-level resolution in the structural investigation of catalysts.1,2 Complementary to X-ray diffraction (XRD) that requires long-range structural ordering, SSNMR is sensitive to geometries and orderings in the short to medium range. The element-specific feature allows NMR to be a key spectroscopic tool to probe the local chemical environments of the target nuclei including the coordination state and electronic structure. Besides, SSNMR is able to characterize the dynamics of adsorbed molecules and frameworks in catalysts. In situ/operando SSNMR techniques offer a key approach for the study of catalytic reaction mechanisms under controlled conditions.3 All the NMR methods are designed to take advantage of various nuclear spin interactions including chemical shift anisotropy (CSA), dipolar interactions and quadrupolar interactions for nuclei with spin quantum number >1/2 to provide structural information. Chemical shifts allow for direct structural assignments of surface species and framework units in catalysts. For different hydroxyl groups on zeolites, acidic proton (Si–OH–Al), and AlOH and SiOH groups are easily distinguished by 1H NMR spectra. Regarding the zeolite structure, the geometry variation of the silica tetrahedra is reflected by the difference of 29Si chemical shifts, while 27Al NMR shows characteristic signals for four-, five- and six-coordinated Al atoms. 1H and 13C NMR of MOFs provide information on the structure of the organic linkers and enable them to be quantified. Additionally, the peak width of the NMR signal dictated by the bond length and angle distributions is an indicator of the degree of disorder within the structure.
Information on the distribution and connectivity of specific sites, functional groups and framework units is critical for the atomic-level understanding of the structure–property relationship of materials. NMR correlation spectroscopy able to establish atomic connectivity and proximity between specific elements in molecules represents a breakthrough in the development of SSNMR. Heteronuclear correlation experiments such as 29Si–27Al NMR and 31P–27Al NMR provide structural information on the connectivity of Si–O–Al and P–O–Al structural units in aluminosilicate and aluminophosphate zeolites. The crystallographically inequivalent sites with spatial proximity or bond connectivity can be revealed by 29Si–29Si homonuclear correlation NMR spectroscopy, which provides structural constraints for powder XRD determination of the structure of zeolites that cannot grow as large crystals for single-crystal XRD. For the organic framework, the spatial distribution of organic linkers within MOFs can be mapped out by 1H–1H, 1H–13C and 13C–15N correlation NMR. Besides, correlation spectroscopy is proved to be an ideal tool for the investigation of host–guest interactions between the porous material framework and the guest molecules adsorbed within its channels. For example, the combination of 27Al–29Si, 1H–27Al, and 1H–13C NMR correlation spectra provides unparalleled insight into the mechanism of zeolite crystallization by revealing the site-specific interactions of organic structure-directing agents with zeolite frameworks. In catalytic reactions, the detection of spatial proximity between adsorbed molecules in catalysts by correlation NMR such as 13C–13C correlation spectroscopy allows the establishment of the surface reaction mechanism.
The methodological and technical development of NMR correlation spectroscopy significantly increases NMR strength and enriches the NMR toolbox for chemists and materials scientists who use NMR for structural and dynamics study of materials.4 The present tutorial review focuses on the application of SSNMR correlation spectroscopy to study catalytic materials of industrial interest including zeolites, metal oxides and MOFs. We first introduce the basics of SSNMR correlation spectroscopy and then the most important recent advances in the methods and techniques are presented. In the following section, how the information on framework structures, active sites and surface sites, host–guest interactions and reaction intermediates in catalyst materials can be obtained from various SSNMR correlation spectroscopy experiments is discussed with a selection of representative work. The review ends with a discussion of challenges and perspectives in this field.
2. SSNMR methods for establishing internuclear correlations in materials
2.1 Basics of SSNMR correlation spectroscopy
In modern SSNMR spectroscopy, it is a common practice to spin a powder sample at the angle with respect to the external magnetic field B0 (magic angle spinning, MAS) to average out the orientation-dependent anisotropic interactions, and thus to significantly narrow the NMR linewidth in solids. The invention of the MAS technique triggered the development and prosperity of high-resolution SSNMR and laid the foundation for SSNMR correlation spectroscopy nowadays.
SSNMR correlation spectroscopy is to probe the interrelationship between nuclei established via specific media/interactions. Such media can be dipolar or J coupling interactions. The former originated from two spatially proximate nuclear spins magnetically interacting with each other, whose strength (up to thousands of Hz) is inversely proportional to the cube of internuclear distance, which is however averaged out by fast MAS in SSNMR spectroscopy. Therefore, a large variety of dipolar recoupling methods has been developed for recovering and measuring dipolar interactions under MAS, by which the important structural information on the spatial proximity/distance of atoms can be extracted. In contrast to the dipolar interaction, the isotropic J coupling interaction (also spin–spin coupling) is not affected by MAS. It typically exists between two nuclei connected by a few (e.g., 1–3) chemical bonds in a molecule, which is routinely used to probe the bond connectivity of atoms in liquid-state NMR. Since the J coupling interaction is usually one or more orders of magnitude smaller (several to hundreds of Hz) compared to other spin interactions, it is hardly observed in a one-dimensional (1D) SSNMR spectrum owing to the coexistence of other inhomogeneous broadenings in solids. Recent progress has shown that the determination and utilization of J couplings on spin-1/2 nuclei in solid materials are possible in the case that the line broadening caused by other anisotropic interactions such as CSA and dipolar interactions can be sufficiently suppressed by fast MAS, thus providing bond-connectivity information about molecular structures. Therefore, we refer to the communications between spins making use of dipolar interactions and J couplings as through-space and through-bond correlation schemes, respectively, in SSNMR correlation spectroscopy.5
SSNMR correlation spectroscopy can be classified into two categories (Table 1): (1) homonuclear correlation experiments among like spins (e.g., 1H–1H, 13C–13C, and 31P–31P) and (2) heteronuclear correlation (HETCOR) experiments involving unlike spins (e.g., 1H–13C, 1H–29Si, and 31P–27Al). The common methods for homonuclear correlation spectroscopy involve the single-quantum (SQ) correlation and double-quantum (DQ) correlation. For the SQ–SQ correlation (Scheme 1a), two-dimensional (2D) 1H–1H and 13C–13C spin diffusion (also known as exchange) experiments6 under MAS can directly observe the exchange of magnetizations between resolved resonance signals (cross peaks in 2D spectrum) based on the flip-flop processes mediated by dipolar interactions. Thus, they are usually used to obtain information about spatial proximity between different protons (e.g., the acid sites, –OH groups on zeolites). 2D 13C–13C proton-driven spin diffusion (PDSD) correlation spectrum can be achieved by the dipolar-assisted rotational resonance (DARR) approach7 and its variants, which allows the observation of spatial proximity between 13C spins with distances up to 10 Å. However, one main limitation of SQ correlation experiments is the intense diagonal background, which conceals diagonal peaks of the coupled like-species and obscures cross peaks close to the diagonal, impairing the extraction of their distance constraints. Alternatively, DQ correlation experiments based on the fact that DQ coherences/signals can be excited only for two or more coupled spin-1/2 nuclei yielding correlation spectra free of diagonal background, simplifying the 2D spectrum and benefiting the quantification of correlations. Even at fast MAS, homonuclear dipolar recoupling schemes can also be employed to establish through-space DQ–SQ homonuclear correlations. In the 2D DQ–SQ correlation spectrum, the chemical shifts (frequency) in the indirect (DQ) dimension are the sum of the chemical shifts of resonance peaks of two coupled spins in the direct (SQ) dimension. Therefore, the correlation signals from spins with the same chemical shift appear on the diagonal line with a slope of 2.0. As for spins with different chemical shifts, their correlation signals emerge as a pair of off-diagonal cross peaks (Scheme 1b): assuming that the SQ frequencies of two coupled spins are ωA and ωB, respectively, the two off-diagonal peaks appear at (ωA + ωB, ωA) and (ωA + ωB, ωB) in the 2D DQ–SQ correlation spectrum. The DQ–SQ homonuclear correlation techniques have been proved to be very useful for the investigation of spatial proximity between acid sites or adsorbed probe molecules (e.g., 1H–1H or 31P–31P) on the catalyst surface.8 The distance information between homonuclear spins can be extracted from the DQ–SQ experiment as their dipole–dipole interactions could be determined by recording a double-quantum build-up curve. For instance, 29Si–29Si DQ experiments were successfully utilized to determine zeolite crystal structures via probing distance-dependent build-up curves between 29Si nuclei.9 Analogous to liquid-state NMR experiments, SSNMR DQ correlation spectra can also be achieved via through-bond (J coupling) INADEQUATE,10 which has been demonstrated to be a valuable method for the determination of organic species (13C–13C bond-connectivity) adsorbed on catalysts. As the number of coupled spin-1/2 nuclei determines the quantum number of the highest excitation coherence, further development of high-resolution multiple quantum (MQ) MAS spectroscopy of dipolar coupled spins in solids can be realized by handling higher order coherence for the characterization of cluster sizes and their topologies. For example, only those from three or more coupled 1H spins are observable in the 2D 1H–1H triple-quantum (3Q) homonuclear correlation spectrum and the isolated 1H–1H spin pairs can be excluded.
Table 1 Classification of homo- and hetero-nuclear correlation SSNMR methods
Homo-nuclei (Ii–Ij)
Methods Dimension Transfer media Representative spins Structure information
SQ–SQ Spin-diffusion 2D Dipolar coupling 1H–1H Spatial proximity between inequivalent spins
PDSD dipolar recoupling 13C–13C, 31P–31P
DQ–SQ Dipolar recoupling 1D/2D Dipolar coupling 1H–1H, 17O–17O Spatial proximity and internuclear distance
INADEQUATE J coupling 13C–13C, 29Si–29Si Bond connectivity
Hetero-nuclei (I–S)
Methods Dimension Pathway Transfer media Representative spins Structure information
REDOR TRAPDOR/REAPDOR RESPDOR 1D I → echo → I (irradiation on S) Dipolar coupling 13C–15N, 1H–67Zn, 13C–119Sn Spatial proximity and internuclear distance
CP 1D/2D I → S Dipolar coupling 1H–13C, 13C–15N, 19F–29Si Spatial proximity
RINEPT I → S Dipolar coupling or J coupling 1H–17O, 31P–27Al, 29Si–27Al Spatial proximity or bond connectivity
HMQC I → S → I
Scheme 1 Schematics of 2D SQ–SQ (a) and DQ–SQ (b) homonuclear spectra, 2D HETCOR spectrum (c) and 1D REDOR-like double-resonance spectra (d).
The NMR approaches used to identify spatial proximity or bond connectivity between distinct nuclei are referred to as heteronuclear correlation (HETCOR) spectroscopy. Unlike the homonuclear correlation, the HETCOR entails at least two nuclear channels excited by the respective pulse sequence, and is thus termed as the double-resonance MAS NMR experiment. For an I–S heteronuclear spin system (e.g., 1H–13C, 13C–15N, and 31P–27Al), the most popular double-resonance experiment is cross polarization (CP), which is performed under simultaneous radio frequency (RF) irradiation (designated here by spin locking) with strong RF fields on I and S spins, respectively. The efficient I → S polarization transfer mediated by dipolar interactions from the initially excited spin I to directly observed spin S occurs in the case of Hartmann–Hahn matching. It is a routine experiment on commercial SSNMR spectrometers to evaluate the spatial proximity between two unlike nuclei and/or enhance the sensitivity of “dilute/rare” spin S (e.g., 13C and 15N) via the polarization transfer from abundant spin I like 1H. The heteronuclear polarization transfer methods can be easily extended to 2D through-space HETCOR experiments (Scheme 1c) for the structural elucidation of complex compounds, in which the chemical shift information of the spin I coupled with spin S will be recorded in the indirect (F1) dimension of the 2D NMR spectrum.
Besides the CP scheme, it is also feasible to obtain 2D through-space dipolar based refocused insensitive nuclei enhanced by polarization transfer (D-RINEPT) and heteronuclear multiple-quantum correlation (D-HMQC) MAS NMR experiments, which are achieved by reintroducing dipolar interactions with heteronuclear dipolar recoupling pulses. Although the relatively weak J couplings prevent efficient polarization transfer between different spins, 2D through-bond HETCOR MAS NMR spectrum can also be achieved by using J-RINEPT and J-HMQC experiments,11 in analogy to the liquid-state NMR experiments. The combination of the through-space and through-bond HETCOR NMR experiments allows establishing connectivity and proximity in an extended region, which is very useful for the analysis of both the framework and interfacial structure constructed by distinct components.
Another prevalent NMR correlation spectroscopy method to probe the heteronuclear proximity is the Rotational-Echo DOuble Resonance (REDOR) experiment.12 For the I–S spin system (e.g., 13C–15N spin pair), two 1D spin-echo MAS NMR spectra are recorded for spin I with (S′) and without (S0) reintroducing the I–S heteronuclear dipolar interaction during the echo delay, whose difference spectrum (ΔS) reflects the spatial proximity between spin I and spin S (Scheme 1d). REDOR NMR is widely used to quantitatively measure the dipolar interactions that are related to the internuclear distance. It is realized by collecting 1D difference spin-echo signals of spin I that reflect the I–S heteronuclear dipolar interactions as a function of recoupling time under MAS (i.e., dipolar dephasing curve). On the basis of a similar concept, TRAnsfer of Populations in DOuble Resonance (TRAPDOR) and Rotational Echo Adiabatic Passage DOuble Resonance (REAPDOR) methods are often used for heteronuclear systems involving half-integer quadrupolar spins (e.g., 1H–27Al and 1H–17O), which have advantages in alleviating interference of strong quadrupolar interactions in the measurements.13 The internuclear distance between hetero-nuclei can be extracted by fitting the dipolar dephasing curve obtained from these double-resonance methods. Nevertheless, these NMR methods are ineffective for quadrupolar nuclei subject to large quadrupolar interactions and/or featuring a low gyromagnetic ratio (γ) (e.g., 67Zn and 95Mo), since considerably high radio-frequency (RF) field intensity is required to change the spin states of quadrupolar nuclei by an adiabatic-passage pulse, which is technically demanding for the NMR probe. By using saturation pulses instead of adiabatic pulses, Symmetry-based Resonance-Echo Saturation Pulse DOuble-Resonance (S-RESPDOR)14 has been proven to be an efficient method at a moderate saturation RF-field regardless of the magnitude of quadrupolar interactions. Particularly, the dipolar dephasing curve for S-RESPDOR experiments involving quadrupolar nuclei with different spin quantum numbers can be expressed by a universal REDOR-type function,14 which allows a rapid fitting of the experimental data to extract the structural constraints.
2.2 Advances in SSNMR correlation spectroscopy
Although various SSNMR correlation methods offer plenty of options/solutions for structural characterization at the atomic level, the complexity of catalytic materials brings challenges to detection sensitivity and spectral resolution. The heterogeneous distribution of NMR-active elements in catalytic materials, the presence of paramagnetic components, and the low natural abundance and/or large quadrupolar/CSA interactions of nuclei significantly limit the application of SSNMR correlation spectroscopy with available techniques. For instance, half-integer quadrupolar nuclei (e.g., 27Al, 23Na, 17O, 11B, 67Zn, 95/97Mo, 69/71Ga, etc.) are important constituting elements in catalytic materials. The presence of large quadrupolar interactions (up to tens of MHz) of the NMR-active isotopes leads to severe anisotropic broadenings, which is detrimental to the establishment of the homo- or hetero-nuclear correlation because of their poor polarization transfer efficiency.
Since the detection sensitivity is proportional to static magnetic field B0, the direct approach to increase the sensitivity is to use high-field NMR spectrometers. At the same time, the spectral resolution can be proportionally improved with B0. The commercially available high-field NMR spectrometer (>18.8 T) makes the high sensitivity observation of difficult half-integer quadrupolar nuclei in catalysts feasible. Most recently, the emerging ultra-high magnetic field of up to 35.2 T (corresponding to the 1H resonance frequency of 1.5 GHz) with dramatically improved sensitivity and resolution opened a new stage for the study of quadrupolar nuclei and low abundance/sensitivity nuclei, which is exemplified by the acquisition of 2D 1H–27Al heteronuclear correlation spectra on dehydrated zeolites possessing 27Al sites with quadrupolar coupling constants >15 MHz,15 and the observation of different 17O environments in MOFs16 and the first 2D 17O–17O DQ–SQ homonuclear correlation spectrum on γ-alumina.17
A NMR signal is determined by the nuclear spin polarization, which is proportional to γ and B0. Besides raising the magnetic field, another approach to enhance NMR sensitivity is to use the high-γ source. By taking advantage of the much higher γ of electron spin (γ(e)/γ(1H) ≈ 660), the dynamic nuclear polarization (DNP) technique can achieve a gain of NMR signals by 2–3 orders of magnitude via polarization transfer from unpaired electrons of a radical polarizing agent to targeted nuclear spins. Particularly, the signal of surface species can be selectively enhanced by DNP. It offers NMR with great advantages for the study of the surface structure and properties of catalytic materials. This leads to the development of DNP surface-enhanced NMR spectroscopy (DNP-SENS),18 which has been experiencing an increasing application in the field of heterogenous catalysis in recent years. DNP-SENS capable of probing lower surface and interfacial regions of materials allows the observation of insensitive nuclei even without isotope enrichment such as 15N, 17O, 29Si, 43Ca, etc. Importantly, DNP-SENS enables 2D correlation experiments involving dilute nuclei such as 17O, 13C and 29Si, which is critical for structure characterization but challenging and even impossible with the conventional NMR method.
Heavy spin-1/2 nuclei (e.g., 117/119Sn, 109Ag, 195Pt, 207Pb, 199Hg, 183W, etc.) are often found as the components of active sites in catalysts such as the metal-modified zeolites and supported oxides. This type of nuclei features a large number of surrounding electrons, which is one of the main hinderances preventing application of conventional NMR correlation spectroscopy. The large CSA interactions of the heavy nucleus spread NMR over a broad range of frequencies. Particularly, a higher magnetic field will lead to larger inhomogeneous broadening of the corresponding resonances since CSA (in Hz) is proportional to the magnetic field. In the case of low-valent tin and platinum compounds, the corresponding NMR spectra exceed 1000 ppm and 10 000 ppm respectively. The signal intensity is distributed over a large manifold of spinning sidebands at moderate MAS speed (<30 kHz), which results in crowded spectra with a poor signal-to-noise ratio (SNR). Ultra-fast MAS NMR probes with spinning rates of up to 110 kHz are nowadays commercially available. The fast MAS (>40 kHz) approach enables significant spectral resolution and sensitivity gains for the indirect detection of the heavy and/or low-sensitivity nuclei via 2D proton-detected heteronuclear correlation experiments.19
3. Application of SSNMR correlation spectroscopy to catalytic materials
3.1 Framework structure of catalytic materials
Elucidation of the crystal structure of zeolites is the prerequisite for the full exploration of their functions. The conventional structure determination of zeolites relies on XRD, which is often inhibited by the lack of long-range order in materials limited to microcrystalline powders. 2D 29Si–29Si homonuclear-correlation NMR offers a key method to detect the local Si–O–Si bonding connectivity.20 Brouwer and co-workers reported a strategy for solving zeolite crystal structures using a combined XRD and 29Si NMR approach.9 XRD provides crystal data (unit cell parameters and space groups), while SSNMR enables structure solution (Fig. 1a). 2D dipole–dipole-mediated 29Si–29Si DQ correlation NMR was used to probe the connectivites of Si sites in a pure siliceous ITQ-4 zeolite by detecting the proximity of the nearest-neighbor and next-nearest-neighbor Si sites (Fig. 1b). The positions and intensities of the correlations allow the covalently bonded and spatially distant Si sites to be identified. 2D 29Si–29Si NMR mediated by through-bond J-coupling interactions such as INADEQUATE is often used as a complementary method for confirmation of the Si–O–Si bond. The Si–Si distances between each Si pairs can be extracted from the DQ curves created by a series of 29Si DQ correlation spectra (Fig. 1c). The topologies established by the NMR approach were identical to the ITQ-4 structure obtained after completion and refinement against the XRD data (Fig. 1d). Besides purely siliceous zeolites, such a NMR structure solution technique is applicable for long-range disordered materials. Particularly, the combination of 2D J-coupling (through-bond) and 2D dipole–dipole-coupling (through-space) DQ 29Si NMR measurements, XRD and quantum chemical modelling has significantly reinforced the capability of the ‘NMR crystallography’ method in the study of molecularly ordered inorganic frameworks, grafted materials and intermediate phases during zeolite crystallization. A limitation for this approach is that it requires a well-resolved NMR spectral resolution for a clear differentiation of distinct crystallographic sites.
Fig. 1 (a) Overview of the structure determination strategy for zeolite crystal structures by a combination of solid-state NMR spectroscopy and powder X-ray diffraction, (b) two-dimensional 29Si DQ correlation spectrum, (c) 29Si DQ curves (red lines: the calculated DQ curves), and (d) comparison of the structure (only the silicon atoms are shown) solved by solid-state NMR (red) with the structure obtained after completion and refinement against powder XRD data (blue). Adapted with permission from ref. 9. Copyright 2005, American Chemical Society.
The incorporation of Al atoms into the framework of purely silica zeolites generates Brønsted and Lewis acidity by the Al–OH–Si bridging acidic groups and framework tricoordinated (SiO)3Al sites, respectively, leading to well-recognized solid acid catalysts. The local structures of framework tricoordinated Al sites in dehydrated FER zeolites and their precursors, “perturbed” (SiO)3AlOH in hydrated samples, were revealed by 27Al{1H} REDOR (3Q) MAS NMR spectroscopy in combination with DFT/MM calculations.21 It is expected to use 27Al–27Al correlation NMR to probe the Al–Al proximities, which provides information on the location and distribution of acid sites in zeolites. In comparison with correlation NMR methods applied to spin 1/2 such as 1H and 29Si NMR, 27Al–27Al correlation experiments suffer from low efficiency because of the quadrupolar nature of the Al nucleus (I = 5/2), making the 27Al–27Al correlation NMR measurements difficult. Thanks to the sensitivity enhancement method, the homonuclear 27Al–27Al DQ MAS NMR experiments were successfully employed to study the evolution of various Al species during dealumination of the HY zeolite at elevated calcination temperatures.22 Framework Al (FAL) atoms are dislodged from the framework in the dealumination process, forming extra-framework Al (EFAL) species. The spatial correlations were established between FAL and EFAL species by 27Al–27Al DQ MAS NMR, providing insights into the dealumination mechanism. The 27Al–27Al correlation NMR experiment is also a method of choice for the study of metal oxides such as alumina. With the help of the DNP-SENS technique, the proximities between surface Al sites in mesoporous alumina were revealed by 27Al–27Al DQ NMR. The interfacial five-coordinated Al was determined to bridge four-coordinated and six-coordinated Al sites.23
Alumina is widely used as a catalyst or catalyst support for many industrial catalytic reactions. However, the complex structure of alumina remains elusive, which attracted intensive structural investigations by various techniques such as NMR, EXAFS, neutron scattering, etc. Despite the low natural abundance (0.037%) and low gamma nature of the 17O nucleus (I = 5/2), 17O SSNMR has emerged as a powerful tool in probing the coordination environment of oxygen atoms in various oxygen containing materials.24 For instance, in combination with 17O isotope enrichment and ultra-high magnetic field (35.2 T), a 2D 17O–17O DQ–SQ homonuclear correlation NMR experiment was reported for mapping the oxygen structure of γ-Al2O317 (Fig. 2a). Four self-correlation peaks (A–A, B–B, C–C, and D–D) observed along the diagonal line reflect the same oxygen sites in close proximity. However, the cross peaks B–E, C–D and B–D evidence the spatial proximities between different oxygen species, which are unambiguously shown in the extracted 1D slices (Fig. 2b). The detected correlations mainly come from the 2-bond 17O–Al–17O correlation with the oxygen sites being present in a non-random manner. Bulk and surface oxygen species on γ-Al2O3 can be further differentiated by using 1H–17O HETCOR experiments, where the 1H–17O through-bond J-HMQC experiments identified the exposed hydroxyl groups (–OH) while the 2D 1H–17O through-space D-HMQC experiments correlated the bare oxygen (without H bonded) with proximate hydroxyl groups. It was revealed that coordinately unsaturated oxygen species are preferentially formed on the (sub)surface of γ-Al2O3. The detailed information on oxygen speciation is helpful for tuning the properties of metal supported γ-Al2O3 catalysts as the anchoring sites for metals are affected by the surface oxygen structure.
Fig. 2 (a) 2D 17O MAS DQ–SQ homonuclear correlation NMR spectrum of γ-Al2O3 recorded at 35.2 T. The deconvoluted 1D 17O MAS NMR spectrum is shown on top. OIV (A, B and C) and OIII (D and E) denote 4-coordinated and 3-coordinated oxygen sites, respectively. (b) Proposed local structure models of oxygen species in γ-Al2O3. A–E represent five distinct bare oxygen sites. The purple dotted arrows indicate the spatial proximities between two specific bare oxygen sites. Surface terminal (μ1), and doubly (μ2) and triply (μ3) bridging hydroxyl groups are indicated. Adapted with permission from ref. 17. Copyright 2020, Springer Nature.
SSNMR is becoming a critical tool for the structural characterization of MOFs. Framework metal ions can be directly probed by various NMR-active nuclei such as 27Al, 51V, 67Zn, 91Zr, etc. Additionally, 1H and 13C NMR spectra are routinely used to analyse the composition and local environment of the linkers and functional groups. 2D NMR experiments such as 1H–1H homonuclear correlation NMR and 1H–13C HEROCR NMR provide high resolution for a better determination of different proton sites and carbon sites in the framework. The uniqueness of the correlation NMR is evidenced on the mixed linker MOFs. Multivariate MOFs (MTV-MOFs) fabricated with mixing variable linkers or functional groups in a single-phase MOF exhibit outstanding properties such as selective carbon dioxide (CO2) capture and hydrogen uptake. Conventional 1D 1H and 13C NMR spectroscopy is unable to probe the spatial distribution of different linkers within MTV-MOFs that determines the properties of the material. Alternatively, REDOR NMR was used to estimate the linker distribution in MTV-MOFs.25 The 13C{15N} REDOR NMR experiments on the 13C and 15N isotope enriched MTV-MOF-5-BF together with the fitting of REDOR decay curves allowed the authors to quantitatively measure the distances between C and N atoms in different linkers (Fig. 3a–c). By comparing the REDOR data of different linker apportionments including large clusters (LC), small clusters (SC), random (Ran) and alternating (Alt) in the framework with the results obtained from Monte Carlo simulations, the two linkers (B and F) in MTV-MOF-5BF were determined to be small cluster distribution (Fig. 3d). The results provide rationale for the observed differences in the CO2 adsorption capacity of MTV-MOFs with different types of linker distributions. To avoid the expensive procedure of isotope labelling, 2D 1H–1H homonuclear NMR experiment provides a simple alternative for the composition determination of mixed-linker MOFs.26 This is demonstrated on the mixed-linker DUT-5 (ML-DUT-5) consisting of the bipyridyl dicarboxylic (BPDC) linkers and some replaced bipyridyl dicarboxylic acid (BPyDC) linkers. In this case, 1H–1H spin-diffusion homonuclear NMR was used to detect the long distance between the protons of BPyDC and BPDC linkers in ML-DUT-5. The observation of the correlation peak between the H2′ atoms of BPyDC and the H1 atoms of BPDC allowed the authors to conclude that some BPyDC share the same crystallites with BPDC linkers (Fig. 4). The polarization transfer rate from BPyDC to BPyDC can be estimated by variable mixing time of 1H spin-diffusion experiments, which revealed the distribution of the minority BPyDC linkers in the ML-DUT-5 framework: well dispersed in the framework or gathered in the domain. This approach can be easily and quickly applied for other mixed-linker systems, benefiting from the high sensitivity of protons, which however requires well-resolved 1H NMR signals in different linkers.
Fig. 3 (a) The linkers B and F; the arrow represents the interaction in REDOR experiments. (b) Experimental 13C{15N} REDOR curves (squares) are compared with the simulated curves for the different linker apportionments, large clusters (LC), small clusters (SC), random (Ran) and alternating (Alt). (c) A suite of 13C{15N} REDOR spectra at a given recoupling time. Blue represents the spectrum without 15N dipolar modulation, S0. Pink represents the 13C spectrum with 15N dipolar modulation, S. Red represents the difference spectrum ΔS obtained by subtracting S from S0. * represents spinning side bands. (d) The derived apportionments for the MTV-MOF-EF. Adapted with permission from ref. 25. Copyright 2013, American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Fig. 4 (a) Structure and labelling of the carbon and hydrogen atoms of ML-DUT-5. Labels of a carbon atom and a hydrogen atom attached to this carbon include equal numbers (for example, the hydrogen atom attached to C1 is labelled H1) and (b) 2D 1H–1H spin-diffusion NMR spectrum of ML-DUT-5. Horizontal and vertical dotted lines mark the frequencies of the H2′ and H1 resonances, and their crossings mark the H2′–H1 cross-peaks. Adapted with permission from ref. 26. Copyright 2015, Wiley-VCH.
3.2 Active sites and surface species on catalysts
Synergistic acid sites on zeolites Synergistic Brønsted/Lewis acid sites are considered to be responsible for the enhanced catalytic performance on dealuminated zeolites. Direct evidence on such synergistic sites is important for a better understanding of the distinct synergistic effect and properties of dealuminated zeolites. 2D 1H–1H DQ MAS NMR capable of detecting proton–proton proximity was used to identify the spatial proximity between Brønsted and Lewis acids in zeolites.8 As demonstrated in the 1H–1H DQ MAS NMR spectrum of the dealuminated HY zeolite, multiple correlations between different hydroxyl groups can be observed. For example, the spatial proximity between the Brønsted and Lewis acid sites (extra-framework AlOH group) in the sodalite cage is evidenced by the off-diagonal peak pairs at (5.0, 6.0) and (1.0, 6.0), while the off-diagonal peak pairs at (4.3, 7.1) and (2.8, 7.1) indicate the spatial proximity between the Brønsted and Lewis acid sites in the supercage (Fig. 5).
Fig. 5 2D 1H–1H DQ MAS NMR spectrum of dealuminated HY. Adapted with permission from ref. 8. Copyright 2007, American Chemical Society.
Measuring the H–H distance between the hydroxy groups by fitting the build-up curves obtained from a series of 1H–1H DQ MAS NMR spectra allowed the authors to obtain the geometric information on the synergistic Brønsted/Lewis acid sites. Most recently, 1D and 2D 1H–1H correlation NMR suggested that the extra-framework aluminol species interacting with Brønsted sites produces highly deshielded acid sites on the ZSM-5 zeolite, indicating the presence of potential acid sites with significantly higher acidic strength.27
In metal-modified zeolites, the enhanced activity is supposed to have originated from the synergistic effect created by the introduced metal species and the intrinsic Brønsted acid sites. The direct NMR observation of the metal species is desirable. However, the metals of interest such as Zn, Mo and Ti are often in quadrupolar nature, featuring low γ and large quadrupolar moment, which bring great challenge for NMR characterization. The difficulty is exacerbated by their low natural isotope abundance of the NMR active nuclei (e.g., 67Zn, 95Mo, and 47/49Ti) coupled with low metal loading (<5 wt%) in zeolites. Nevertheless, the advances in the sensitivity-enhanced method together with high-magnetic field enable direct NMR detection of metal active sites in zeolites. Moreover, 1H{X} (X: metal) double-resonance NMR offers a versatile approach to reveal the structure of synergistic sites by probing their spatial proximities/interactions. Among the double-resonance experiments available for characterizing internuclear proximity/interactions, S-RESPDOR is the method of choice when dealing with heteronuclear dipolar couplings between spin-1/2 and half-integer quadrupolar nuclei. Based on the observation of Zn2+ ions on the Zn/H-ZSM-5 zeolite by 67Zn NMR (Fig. 6a), the 1H{67Zn} S-RESPDOR NMR spectra provided direct experimental evidence on the spatial proximity between Brønsted acidic protons and zinc species as demonstrated by the strong dipolar dephased signal for SiOHAl (at 4.3 ppm)28 (Fig. 6b). The analysis of the dipolar dephasing build-up curves allows the determination of the 1H–67Zn nuclear distance (2.70–3.34 Å), providing structural insight into the proximate acidic proton and Zn2+ ion (Fig. 6c). Such 1H–67Zn proximity results in the enhanced Brønsted acidity of Zn/HZSM-5 zeolite, which explains its higher activity for C–H bond activation of methane compared with that of the parent H-ZSM-5.
Fig. 6 67Zn HS-QCPMG (a) and 1H–{67Zn} S-RESPDOR (b) NMR spectra of Zn/ZSM-5 recorded at 18.8 T. S0 and S denote the 1H spectra without and with 67Zn irradiation, respectively. ΔS is the difference spectrum obtained by S0–S. (c) Schematic illustration of the proximity between the acidic proton and Zn2+ in zeolite channels. Adapted with permission from ref. 28. Copyright 2016, Wiley-VCH.
Surface species on oxides and immobilized catalysts Based on controlled surface chemistry, immobilization of organometallic compounds onto inorganic supports such as silica, alumina, alumina–silica, zeolites and mesoporous materials provides a molecular approach to design well-defined, active and selective heterogeneous catalysts. SSNMR, particularly correlation spectroscopy, plays a key role in understanding the structure of surface, grafted complex, interfacial interactions and reactivity of the active sites.
Alumina is one of the mostly used supports. The surface properties of alumina depend on the texture and crystallographic phases, which influence the formation and stabilization of active sites. 2D 1H–27Al D-HMQC in combination with 2D 1H–1H DQ NMR experiments allows the unambiguous identification of terminal and bridging surface hydroxyl groups in connection with aluminum atoms in different coordination on γ-alumina dehydroxylated at 500 °C.29 The effect of the crystallographic phase on the surface hydroxyls was examined in dehydrated α-Al2O3 and γ-Al2O3.30 2D 1H–27Al D-HMQC NMR demonstrates a high concentration of μ1-HO-AlT (tetra-coordinated surface Al) groups and less doubly bridging μ1-HO-AlP (penta-coordinated surface Al) and μ1-HO-AlH (hexa-coordinated surface Al) groups (0.5–2.5 ppm) on γ-Al2O3 (Fig. 7). In comparison, the terminal hydroxyls including μ1-HO-AlT, μ1-HO-AlP and μ1-HO-AlH sites are less while μ2,3-OH hydroxyls are more abundant on α-Al2O3. It also reveals that α-Al2O3 has a higher concentration of triply bridging μ3-OH groups (ca. 3.0 ppm) than on γ-Al2O3, indicating a higher Brønsted acidity. The concentration of the surface hydroxyl groups and coordinatively unsaturated Al sites (Lewis-acidic) is demonstrated to be a key factor in generating stable active sites for propene metathesis on methyltrioxorhenium grafted alumina.
Fig. 7 Comparison of γ-Al2O3 (left) and α-Al2O3 (right), both treated at 450 °C: (a and d) 2D 1H–27Al HMQC MAS NMR spectra; (b and e) sums of the 27Al NMR signals in the 1H region from 0.3 to −0.6 ppm; and (c and f) projections in the 27Al dimension for the 1H region from 6 to −2 ppm. Spectra were recorded at 18.8 T, with a spinning speed of 20 kHz. Adapted with permission from ref. 30. Copyright 2018, American Chemical Society.
The structure of grafted complexes on oxide supports is a subject of intensive studies by using homonuclear and heteronuclear correlation NMR experiments. Probing the internuclear proximity between protons in the grafted complex and element in a support such as Si or O in SiO2 by HETCOR NMR provides atomic-level information on the interfacial interactions, which is critical for understanding how the support surface influences the formation of active sites and their activity. This is exemplified by the study of Ru–N-heterocyclic carbene (NHC) moieties grafted on mesoporous silica as alkene metathesis catalysts.31 Two materials were prepared with NHC complexes grafted on silica surfaces via propyl (Mat-ImR) and mesitylphenyl (Mat-ImF) tethers. The 2D 1H–29Si HETCOR NMR spectra of Mat-ImR and Mat-ImF show that the T3 sites on silica have stronger correlations with aliphatic protons on Mat-ImF than with aromatic protons on Mat-IMR (Fig. 8a). Additionally, the correlations between the Si(Qn) sites and the aromatic and methyl groups from the imidazolium and mesityl fragments were observed in the 1H–29Si correlation spectrum of Mat-ImF (Fig. 8b). It was revealed that the flexible propyl tether allows the folding of the attached groups to the silica surface, generating the observed strong interactions, which is absent in Mat-IMR due to the rigid aromatics tether. In the metathesis of ethyl oleate reactions, the immobilized Ru–NHC catalyst with a flexible tether exhibits higher stability, showing the significant effect of the surface functionality of the support on the catalytic performance. Since the grafted complex is bridged with the support via bridging element O, 17O NMR can be used as a tool to probe the M (metal)–O–S (support) fragments, providing direct evidence on the interaction between the grafted complex and the support. For example, the utilization of 2D 1H–17O J-HMQC and 1H–17O D-HMQC on tungsten trisalkyl–alkylidyne complex grafted 17O-labeled silica allowed the authors to selectively observe the Si–OH groups and get information on the spatial configuration of Si–O–Si and Si–O–W sites and Si–OH sites.32 As an alternative to the expensive 17O enrichment, it is very desirable to perform the naturally abundant 17O NMR experiments. Using combined polarization transfer methods of Phase-shifted Recoupling Effects a Smooth Transfer of Order (PRESTO) and sensitivity enhancement pulse sequence Quadrupolar Carr–Purcell Meiboom–Gill (QCPMG), the DNP-enhanced 17O{1H}PRESTO-QCPMG HETCOR experiments enabled the differentiation of hydrogen-bound and isolated surface silanol groups on mesoporous silica nanoparticles at natural abundance by detecting the 1H–17O heteronuclear correlation.33
Fig. 8 2D 1H–29Si HETCOR DNP-SENS spectra recorded at 9.4 T for the Mat-ImR (a) and Mat-ImF (b) materials. Adapted with permission from ref. 31. Copyright 2013, American Chemical Society.
Although the surface–support interface can be characterized by the abovementioned HETCOR NMR experiment, it is still a challenge to make a three-dimensional (3D) structure determination of the interaction, which is critical for the in-depth understanding of the immobilized catalysts. Double-resonance NMR provides a versatile method to gain structural constraints by precise quantitative internuclear distances. This is demonstrated by the study of the 3D structure of Pt-complex grafted on an amorphous silica surface.34 Using the DNP surface-enhanced 13C{15N} and 29Si{15N} REDOR experiments together with data simulations, the authors obtained nontrivial structural information from the measured internuclear distances. Combining the structural constraints yielded by NMR and EXAFS techniques, the 3D structure of the surface complex was determined with a precision of 0.7 Å. The results also show that the grafted complex folded toward the silica surface, producing interactions between the Pt metal center and surface oxygen sites in silica.
The characterization of grafted metal centers is also an important subject for understanding the nature of active sites on immobilized catalysts prepared using the surface organometallic chemistry approach. A recent example demonstrated the detection of challenging metal nuclei such as 195Pt in metal complexes enabled by the advanced proton-detected D-HMQC NMR under fast MAS conditions.18,35
3.3 Host–guest interactions in catalytic materials
Host–guest interactions involve recognizable structural-relationships or noncovalent binding between two molecules or materials, which are widely found in chemical synthesis, supramolecular chemistry, biorecognition processes, catalytic reactions etc. Understanding host–guest interactions is one of the key requirements for revealing the physical–chemical process and designing materials with improved properties. The host–guest interactions between structure-directing agents (SDAs) and zeolite frameworks significantly influence the properties of the synthetized zeolites in terms of pore size, topology and shape. 2D correlation NMR experiments show advantages in the study of host–guest interactions by establishing the proximity between the host and guest molecules. By using 2D DQ and triple quantum (TQ) proton homonuclear-correlation NMR experiments, not only the speciation of framework-proton atoms can be clearly identified, but also the location of different protons can be further elucidated. Silanols are formed as framework defects in zeolites, which affect the hydrophobicity of zeolites and thus the catalytic performance. In the as-synthesized zeolites, the negatively charged defects balance the positive charge of the SDAs. Therefore, the location and distribution of defects can be revealed by detecting their proximity to the SDAs by using 2D 1H–1H correlation MAS NMR.36,37 As displayed in the 1H DQ MAS NMR spectrum of as-synthesized tetrapropylammonium (TPA)-silicalite-1 (Fig. 9a), the auto-correlation peaks show the protons in both TPA+ molecule (Hα, Hβ, and Hγ) and siloxy/silanol (SiO−⋯HOSi) defects having similar neighbours.36 Moreover, the cross-peak observed between the SiOH defect (10.2 ppm) and the Hγ of the TPA+ (dashed line) evidenced the close vicinity of the methyl groups on the TPA+ to the SiO−⋯HOSi silanols (Fig. 9b). Since the location of the TPA+ cations was known to be at the intersection of zeolite channels and no correlations between the Hα or Hβ and the silanols were observed, it can be concluded that the defects are mostly located in the middle of the zeolite channels.
Fig. 9 (a) Conventional MAS (blue) and double-quantum (green) 1H NMR spectra of the as-synthesized silicalite-1, and (b) schematic representation of the silanol defects in the vicinity of TPA methyl groups. The 1H⋯1H distances were extracted from an array of DQ spectra. Adapted with permission from ref. 36. Copyright 2015, American Chemical Society.
Different SDAs can be combined to cooperatively synthesize zeolites that could not be produced with either one alone. The combination of correlation NMR spectra with complementary techniques offers unparalleled insight into the roles of different SDAs in directing zeolite crystallization. This is demonstrated in the study of how two SDAs, N,N,N-trimethyl-1,1-adamantammonium (TMAda+) and 1,2-hexanediol (D61,2), cooperatively direct the formation of mordenite zeolite crystals by using HETCOR NMR in combination with HRTEM and diffraction techniques.38 2D 1H–27Al, 1H–29Si and 1H–13C HETOCR NMR spectra allowed the authors to reveal the types of framework–organic interactions and distributions of different SDAs within the 12-ring channels and 8-ring pockets of mordenite. The different OSDA molecules were found to be in close mutual proximities within the mordenite channels, which direct the formation of the mordenite framework.
Detailed characterization of the adsorbate–adsorbent interactions is important for understanding the adsorption–desorption behaviour and designing efficient adsorbents. For CO2 adsorption on amine-modified mesoporous silica, different chemisorbed CO2 species could be formed even when one type of amine functional group is present. 2D 1H–13C and 1H–29Si HETCOR NMR in combination with DFT modelling provided detailed information about the CO2 adducts generated from the CO2 adsorption on SBA-15 functionalized with amines having distinct steric hindrances (e.g., primary, secondary, and tertiary).39 The detection of atomistic CO2–amine and amine–SBA-15 interactions by observing the 1H–13C and 1H–29Si proximities shows that all chemisorbed CO2 species are involved in hydrogen bonds with either surface silanols or neighboring alkylamines. In this case, the 2D NMR experiments benefit from the enhanced 13C NMR signal by using 13C-labeled CO2 (Fig. 10). The 2D CP based 1H–13C HETCOR spectra can be edited by using 1H homonuclear decoupling methods such as the Lee–Goldburg (LG)-CP method to detect distant protons and carbon atoms or using a shorter contact time to select directly bonded H–C groups. Similarly, the interactions between the confined molecules such as water and organics with porous materials such as MOFs have been probed by various 2D HETCOR NMR including 1H–13C, 1H–13Al and 1H–29Si experiments, which provide valuable information on binding, molecular mobility and spatial arrangement of the adsorbed molecules inside the pores of materials. Double-resonance NMR experiment is also a useful method for probing the host–guest interactions. As an example, 13C{1H} REDOR NMR combined with DFT calculations was employed to reveal the interactions of water, 2-aminopyridine, 3-aminopyridine, and diethylamine with Cr3+ cations on Cr-MIL-101.40 This approach allows the authors to gain information not only about the arrangement of the adsorbates at the metal sites, but also about the dynamical disorder of the guest molecules and the Cr-MIL-101 framework. The dynamics were extracted from the 13C{1H} REDOR spectra which are sensitive to the reorientations of the CH groups.
Fig. 10 (a) 13C CPMAS NMR spectrum of APTES@SBA-15 after exposure to 13CO2. A, B, and C denote the three chemisorbed CO2 species. (b) 1H–13C HETCOR NMR spectrum with a CT(LG-CP) = 2 ms. Asterisks denote spinning sidebands. Adapted with permission from ref. 39. Copyright 2017, American Chemical Society.
The interactions between the reactant with active sites in catalyst initiate the catalytic reactions. The formation of host–guest complexes with varied interaction strength and type significantly influences the related reaction process. The direct NMR approach to understand the organic molecule-active site complex in zeolites is the application of the 13C–27Al double-resonance NMR technique. A technical challenge arises from the close Larmor frequencies between 13C and 27Al nuclei (about 3.6 MHz difference at 9.4 T), which makes the double-resonance NMR experiments inapplicable with conventional NMR probes because the simultaneous observation of the two nuclei is prohibited. This difficulty can be addressed by making use of a frequency splitter and 13C–{27Al} S-RESPDOR NMR method for the detection of the 13C–27Al dipolar interaction. A supramolecular system is formed by confining organic molecules in zeolite channels or cavities. In the methanol-to-olefin (MTO) reaction, the host–guest interaction between the Brønsted acid site and retained hydrocarbon pool (HP) species in zeolite channels gives rise to a supramolecular reaction center (SRC), which is one of the examples of the supramolecular systems in zeolite catalysis. 13C–{27Al} S-RESPDOR experiments were applied to study the nature of the SRC in the H-ZSM-5 zeolite (Fig. 11a). The intensity modulations demonstrated on the HP species (0–60 ppm) provided direct spectroscopic evidence on the existence of spatial interactions between the trapped HP species and zeolite framework.41 The trapped methylbenzenes and cyclic carbocation HP species interact with Brønsted acid sites forming a π-complex and an ion-pair complex respectively (Fig. 11b). It was revealed that organic fragments strongly interacting with Brønsted acid sites act as the reactive HP species in the MTO reaction.
Fig. 11 (a) 13C–{27Al} S-RESPDOR NMR spectra of trapped products obtained from the methanol reaction over the H-ZSM-5 zeolite and (b) models for the SRC in zeolite channels. Adapted with permission from ref. 41. Copyright 2016, Wiley-VCH.
The formation of the initial C–C bond in the MTO reaction on a zeolite is a subject of intensive studies due to its great implication in the methanol chemistry. The role of EFAL in the MTO was unraveled by exploring the host–guest interactions in the zeolite. The formation of surface methoxy species bound to EFAL (SMS–EFAL) was identified by using 13C–{27Al} S-RESPDOR NMR in the early stage of the MTO reaction on the dealuminated H-ZSM-5 zeolite.42 The C–Al inter-nuclear distance extracted from the S-RESPDOR NMR data is in good agreement with the theoretically predicated value, which provides key information about the structure of the SMS–EFAL complex. In the MTO reactions, the SMS–EFAL species was demonstrated to be able to initiate direct formation of the first C–C bond product ethene.
In addition to the 13C–27Al correlation, double-resonance NMR can be extended to correlate 13C with other framework atoms for the characterization of host–guest interactions in a broad range of reactions. This is demonstrated by the study of the reaction of carbonyl-containing molecules on Sn-β zeolites. The utilization of 13C{119Sn} double-resonance NMR spectroscopy allowed the authors to identify a stable surface gem-diol-type species bound to the open Sn site ((SiO)3Sn–OH) in the activation of acetone.43 The combination of NMR results and DFT calculations suggests that the gem-diol-type species serve as an active intermediate in the Meerwein–Ponndorf–Verley–Oppenauer (MPVO) reaction of acetone with cyclohexanol. Another illustration of varied double-resonance NMR for host–guest interactions is the application of DNP-assisted 29Si{13C} REDOR experiments in methanol conversion on the β zeolite. The proximities between silicon sites in the zeolite framework and confined HP species (e.g., carbocations) were determined, providing implications for the accumulation of these species in zeolite channels towards zeolite deactivation.44
3.4 Reaction intermediates in catalytic reactions
The observation and identification of active intermediates formed in reactions are important routes to understand the catalytic mechanism and reaction behaviour towards the establishment of the structure–activity relationship. 2D NMR such as 1H–13C HETCOR and 13C–13C homonuclear correlation spectra provide direct structural information of reaction intermediates such as surface species formed on catalyst, while the speciation assignment by 1D NMR such as 1H and 13C NMR often relies on the comparison of the chemical shifts to those of known molecular species.
2D correlation NMR experiments have been intensively used in the mechanistic study of alcohol conversion over zeolites. The formation of the first C–C bond-containing intermediate during the early stage of the MTO reaction over the zeolite is the important evidence for the operation of the direct mechanism for the generation of hydrocarbons. The 2D 13C–13C homonuclear correlation and 13C–1H HETCOR NMR combined with UV/Vis diffuse reflectance spectroscopy enabled the identification of surface formates, acetate species, methyl acetate and dimethoxymethane in the H-SAPO-34 catalyzed MTO reaction, providing spectroscopic evidence for the direct formation of the first C–C bond.45 Understanding the reaction mechanism of ethanol dehydration to ethene on zeolites is critical for the development of improved catalysts for light olefin production from bioethanol available in large quantity from biomass. 2D 13C–13C INADEQUATE MAS NMR allowed the structural determination of a triethyloxonium ion (TEO) intermediate in ethanol conversion on the H-ZSM-5 zeolite.46In situ NMR in combination with DFT calculations showed that the reactive TEO ions can be easily converted to ethene through surface ethoxy species, which provides an energetically preferable route for the dehydration of ethanol to ethene. The capability of correlation NMR in providing structural information on reaction intermediates was also demonstrated in the catalytic hydrogenation of CO2 to methanol on Cu supported oxides (SiO2 and ZrO2),47 where surface methoxy and formate species were ascertained, providing key information on the reaction mechanism.
Besides the molecular structural analysis, an interesting aspect of correlation NMR spectroscopy is the spectral editing function that enables differentiation of mobile and rigid species based on their mobility in catalyst. This was demonstrated by the mechanistic study of benzene ethylation with ethanol on the alumina-bound H-ZSM-5 extrudate.48 Such a reaction is proposed to involve electrophilic aromatic substitution (SEAr) via the classical Wheland intermediate (carbocationic σ-complex) (Fig. 12a), which is related to the synthesis of many industrial bulk and fine chemicals. Identification of the Wheland intermediates in the benzene ethylation process is complicated by the formation of a series of compounds with similar structures. The application of the through-bond magnetization transfer scheme (e.g., INEPT) in the correlation spectra allowed the authors to select the molecules or groups exhibiting fast motions such as quickly rotating methyl groups, while the through-space magnetization transfer scheme e.g., CP-based correlation NMR spectra mostly observe the strongly adsorbed or trapped molecules in catalyst that exhibit no or limited mobility. For example, the rigid molecules formed on catalyst such as adsorbed ethanol, surface ethoxyl species and surface π-complexes of ethylbenzene/diethylbenzene were distinguished in the CP based 1H–13C and 13C–13C correlation spectra (Fig. 12b and c). The observation of the surface π-complexes is consistent with operando UV-Vis diffuse reflectance spectroscopy, confirming the formation of a σ-complex (Whelandtype) intermediate in the zeolite catalysed SEAr mechanism.
Fig. 12 (a) Schematic illustration of (a) the formation of the Wheland-type intermediate and (b) rigid/low mobility molecules after the EB reaction over alumina-bound H-ZSM-5. (c) MAS solid-state NMR correlations of the trapped molecules. For the 13C–1H correlation spectrum (green), dipolar cross-polarization was used to polarize the carbons. In the 13C–13C correlation spectra, the carbons were polarized either through cross-polarization (red) or direct excitation (purple) and 13C–13C mixing was achieved through proton-driven spin-diffusion using phase-alternated recoupling irradiation schemes. Adapted with permission from ref. 48. Copyright 2018, Springer Nature.
In addition to the molecular mobility, the information about interactions between organic species formed on the catalyst surface is important for understanding the transformations of reactants or intermediates via bimolecular reactions such as the alkylation process. The strength of correlation NMR spectra in establishing short- or long-range distance correlations can be utilized to characterize various intermolecular interactions during catalytic reactions. An example of this potential is demonstrated by the study of the zeolite deactivation mechanism in methanol-to-hydrocarbon (MTH) conversion.49 In this case, the 13C–13C proton-driven spin diffusion (PDSD) NMR experiments with different mixing times were used to explore different ranges of spatial proximities between the HP species (i.e., cyclopentenyl cations and methylbenzenes) confined inside the SSZ-13 zeolite (Fig. 13).
Fig. 13 . (a) 2D 13C–13C PDSD spectra of retained species obtained from a 13C methanol reaction over H-SSZ-13-LS at 300 °C for 4–30 min. (b) Models for the formation of polyaromatics in zeolite channels through the reaction of aromatics with cyclopentenyl cations. Adapted with permission from ref. 49. Copyright 2020, Wiley-VCH.
Intramolecular 13C pairs are observable for both methylbenzenes and cyclopentenyl cations at short mixing time (100 ms) because of short-range internuclear interactions, while the medium-range intermolecular proximities/interactions between methylbenzenes and cyclopentenyl cations can be observed at long mixing time (500 ms). The evolution of the carbocation–aromatics π interaction induced proximities in the MTH reaction was followed by the characteristic cross-peak (224, 130) ppm in the 2D 13C–13C PDSD spectra. The closer proximities represented by the peak intensity with reaction time were correlated with the formation of naphthalene as a precursor to coke species. It was shown that the bimolecular reactions between these HP species enabled by the carbocation–aromatics π interaction depends on the pore structure and acid density of the zeolites, which provides new insights for understanding the zeolite deactivation in the MTH reaction.
4. Conclusions and outlooks
The ultimate goal of material design is to maximize its function and improve performance for a specific application. The diversity of components, structures and properties of heterogeneous catalysts including zeolites, metal oxides, MOFs, etc. make them a notorious complex system for characterization. Solid-state NMR has been proved to be a technique of choice for the characterization of these catalytic materials and matured to a stage where atomic-level insights into the local structure in the framework and on the surface and interface as well as host–guest interactions can be obtained by using a combination of sophisticated experiments. Based on the chemical shift, which provides direct information about the coordination state, structure symmetry and local chemical environment, NMR correlation spectroscopy is a valuable and versatile technique for the study of the catalyst structure on the medium-range order which is critical for a deeper understanding of the structure and properties.
The combination of multinuclear, multidimensional and quantitative properties of NMR correlation experiments is unique among characterization methods for the structural analysis of catalytic materials in both order and disorder. The rapid development of methodologies in the past years makes correlation experiments full of variety towards different systems and the specific information sought after. These include (i) 2D heteronuclear correlation methods such as the conventional CP based technique for systems containing spin-1/2 nuclei (1H, 13C, 15N, etc.) and HMQC for half-integer quadrupolar (27Al, 11B, 71Ga, etc.) and a spin-1/2 nuclei, (ii) 2D homonuclear correlation methods such as DQ–SQ NMR to probe proximity between spatially separated atoms and INADEQUATE to establish connectivity between chemically bonded atoms, and (iii) double-resonance spectroscopy such as REDOR for the establishment of spatial proximity and the measurement of internuclear distances. Recently, 3D correlation NMR spectra were achieved on inorganic materials,50 allowing the observation of proximities or connectivities between three distinct nuclei.
Improving the detection sensitivity remains a long-standing aim of solid-state NMR for materials’ characterization. The dilute species or low surface/interface is of particular interest for heterogeneous catalysts, which represents a challenge for NMR characterization. This is especially the case for catalytic materials containing low natural abundance and low γ nuclei, for which the correlation experiments are often prohibited due to the low sensitivity and unaffordable experiment time. Using isotope-enriched materials can significantly increase NMR sensitivity and allows multidimensional correlation experiments feasible. This however is often limited by the extremely expensive and sometime unavailable NMR-active isotopes. The advancements in NMR instrumentation provide exciting opportunities. For example, the surface-enhanced DNP capable of yielding 2–3 orders of magnitude sensitivity gain opens new avenues to detect the surface sites and dilute grafted species on a catalyst support by NMR correlation experiments, avoiding expensive or impractical isotope enrichment of the target nuclei. As an example, DNP enabled the acquisition of the interface-selective 27Al–27Al DQ–SQ correlation spectrum on mesoporous alumina in about 4 h.23 In comparison, it would require over 15 years for acquisition of equivalent data under conventional NMR conditions. Nevertheless, high cost for running (i.e., using liquid nitrogen for experiments) and limitations on the radical formulation leave a vast space for a large-scale use of this revolutionary NMR technique for a wide range of catalytic materials. In addition, the ultrafast MAS probe capable of beyond 100 kHz MAS frequencies has significantly contributed to sensitivity and resolution enhancement in 2D correlation spectroscopy. The combination of the fast MAS and proton-detection 2D correlation pulse sequence that is widely applied to bio-molecular systems is attracting increasing attention for the structural characterization of inorganic materials, particularly in order to attempt to reveal the nature of surface species on heterogeneous catalysts. Additional benefit of this method is that fewer sample (a couple of milligrams) is required which is often an important factor to be considered for the samples not easily prepared.
Correlation NMR spectroscopy coupled with other NMR methods plays a vital role in the elucidation of the structure of catalytic materials and related properties in catalytic reactions. The utility and impact of correlation NMR spectroscopy will be strengthened and amplified in materials science with the looming advancement in NMR hardware and pulse sequences. Integrating the multiscale data extracted by NMR spectroscopy, XRD and microscopy with theoretical modelling provides a protocol for obtaining a full picture of the material structure with complicated extents of order and disorder and aiding new material design.
Conflicts of interest
There are no conflicts to declare.
Acknowledgements
This work was supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (Grants 21872170, 21733013, U1932218, 22061130202), the Youth Innovation Promotion Association of the Chinese Academy of Sciences (No. 2019326), and the Royal Society—Newton Advanced Fellowship (NAF\R1\201066).
References
B. F. Chmelka J. Magn. Reson., 2019, 306 , 91 —97 Search PubMed .
M. Hunger Catal. Rev., 1997, 39 , 345 —393 Search PubMed .
A. P. A. T. Bell NMR techniques in catalysis , M. Dekker, New York, 1994, Search PubMed .
J. Xu , Q. Wang and F. Deng , Acc. Chem. Res., 2019, 52 , 2179 —2189 Search PubMed .
M. Baldus , R. J. Iuliucci and B. H. Meier , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1997, 119 , 1121 —1124 Search PubMed .
D. Suter and R. R. Ernst , Phys. Rev. B: Condens. Matter Mater. Phys., 1985, 32 , 5608 —5627 Search PubMed .
K. Takegoshi , S. Nakamura and T. Terao , Chem. Phys. Lett., 2001, 344 , 631 —637 Search PubMed .
S. Li , A. Zheng , Y. Su , H. Zhang , L. Chen , J. Yang , C. Ye and F. Deng , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2007, 129 , 11161 —11171 Search PubMed .
D. H. Brouwer , R. J. Darton , R. E. Morris and M. H. Levitt , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2005, 127 , 10365 —10370 Search PubMed .
A. Lesage , M. Bardet and L. Emsley , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1999, 121 , 10987 —10993 Search PubMed .
J. P. Amoureux , J. Trebosc , J. Wiench and M. Pruski , J. Magn. Reson., 2007, 184 , 1 —14 Search PubMed .
T. Gullion and J. Schaefer , J. Magn. Reson., 1989, 81 , 196 —200 Search PubMed .
M. J. Duer Solid-State NMR Spectroscopy Principles and Applications , Blackwell Science Ltd, 2001, 111–178 Search PubMed .
L. Chen , Q. Wang , B. Hu , O. Lafon , J. Trebosc , F. Deng and J.-P. Amoureux , Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2010, 12 , 9395 —9405 Search PubMed .
K. Chen , S. Horstmeier , V. T. Nguyen , B. Wang , S. P. Crossley , T. Pham , Z. Gan , I. Hung and J. L. White , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 142 , 7514 —7523 Search PubMed .
V. Martins , J. Xu , X. Wang , K. Chen , I. Hung , Z. Gan , C. Gervais , C. Bonhomme , S. Jiang , A. Zheng , B. E. G. Lucier and Y. Huang , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 142 , 14877 —14889 Search PubMed .
Q. Wang , W. Li , I. Hung , F. Mentink-Vigier , X. Wang , G. Qi , X. Wang , Z. Gan , J. Xu and F. Deng , Nat. Commun., 2020, 11 , 3620 Search PubMed .
A. Lesage , M. Lelli , D. Gajan , M. A. Caporini , V. Vitzthum , P. Miéville , J. Alauzun , A. Roussey , C. Thieuleux , A. Mehdi , G. Bodenhausen , C. Coperet and L. Emsley , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2010, 132 , 15459 —15461 Search PubMed .
A. Venkatesh , A. Lund , L. Rochlitz , R. Jabbour , C. P. Gordon , G. Menzildjian , J. Viger-Gravel , P. Berruyer , D. Gajan , C. Copéret , A. Lesage and A. J. Rossini , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2020, 142 , 18936 —18945 Search PubMed .
C. A. Fyfe , Y. Feng , H. Gies , H. Grondey and G. T. Kokotailo , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 1990, 112 , 3264 —3270 Search PubMed .
J. Brus , L. Kobera , W. Schoefberger , M. Urbanová , P. Klein , P. Sazama , E. Tabor , S. Sklenak , A. V. Fishchuk and J. Dědeček , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2015, 54 , 541 —545 Search PubMed .
Z. Yu , A. Zheng , Q. Wang , L. Chen , J. Xu , J.-P. Amoureux and F. Deng , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2010, 49 , 8657 —8661 Search PubMed .
D. Lee , H. Takahashi , A. S. L. Thankamony , J.-P. Dacquin , M. Bardet , O. Lafon and G. De Paëpe , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2012, 134 , 18491 —18494 Search PubMed .
S. E. Ashbrook and M. E. Smith , Chem. Soc. Rev., 2006, 35 , 718 —735 Search PubMed .
X. Kong , H. Deng , F. Yan , J. Kim , J. A. Swisher , B. Smit , O. M. Yaghi and J. A. Reimer , Science, 2013, 341 , 882 —885 Search PubMed .
A. Krajnc , T. Kos , N. Zabukovec Logar and G. Mali , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2015, 54 , 10535 —10538 Search PubMed .
K. Chen , M. Abdolrhamani , E. Sheets , J. Freeman , G. Ward and J. L. White , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139 , 18698 —18704 Search PubMed .
G. Qi , Q. Wang , J. Xu , J. Trébosc , O. Lafon , C. Wang , J.-P. Amoureux and F. Deng , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55 , 15826 —15830 Search PubMed .
M. Taoufik , K. C. Szeto , N. Merle , I. D. Rosal , L. Maron , J. Trébosc , G. Tricot , R. M. Gauvin and L. Delevoye , Chem. – Eur. J., 2014, 20 , 4038 —4046 Search PubMed .
F. Zhang , K. C. Szeto , M. Taoufik , L. Delevoye , R. M. Gauvin and S. L. Scott , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140 , 13854 —13868 Search PubMed .
M. K. Samantaray , J. Alauzun , D. Gajan , S. Kavitake , A. Mehdi , L. Veyre , M. Lelli , A. Lesage , L. Emsley , C. Copéret and C. Thieuleux , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2013, 135 , 3193 —3199 Search PubMed .
N. Merle , J. Trébosc , A. Baudouin , I. D. Rosal , L. Maron , K. Szeto , M. Genelot , A. Mortreux , M. Taoufik , L. Delevoye and R. M. Gauvin , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2012, 134 , 9263 —9275 Search PubMed .
F. A. Perras , U. Chaudhary , I. I. Slowing and M. Pruski , J. Phys. Chem. C, 2016, 120 , 11535 —11544 Search PubMed .
P. Berruyer , M. Lelli , M. P. Conley , D. L. Silverio , C. M. Widdifield , G. Siddiqi , D. Gajan , A. Lesage , C. Copéret and L. Emsley , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139 , 849 —855 Search PubMed .
F. A. Perras , A. Venkatesh , M. P. Hanrahan , T. W. Goh , W. Huang , A. J. Rossini and M. Pruski , J. Magn. Reson., 2017, 276 , 95 —102 Search PubMed .
E. Dib , J. Grand , S. Mintova and C. Fernandez , Chem. Mater., 2015, 27 , 7577 —7579 Search PubMed .
G. Brunklaus , H. Koller and S. I. Zones , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55 , 14459 —14463 Search PubMed .
M. Kumar , Z. J. Berkson , R. J. Clark , Y. Shen , N. A. Prisco , Q. Zheng , Z. Zeng , H. Zheng , L. B. McCusker , J. C. Palmer , B. F. Chmelka and J. D. Rimer , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2019, 141 , 20155 —20165 Search PubMed .
L. Mafra , T. Čendak , S. Schneider , P. V. Wiper , J. Pires , J. R. B. Gomes and M. L. Pinto , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2017, 139 , 389 —408 Search PubMed .
T. Wittmann , A. Mondal , C. B. L. Tschense , J. J. Wittmann , O. Klimm , R. Siegel , B. Corzilius , B. Weber , M. Kaupp and J. Senker , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140 , 2135 —2144 Search PubMed .
C. Wang , Q. Wang , J. Xu , G. D. Qi , P. Gao , W. Y. Wang , Y. Y. Zou , N. D. Feng , X. L. Liu and F. Deng , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55 , 2507 —2511 Search PubMed .
C. Wang , Y. Chu , J. Xu , Q. Wang , G. Qi , P. Gao , X. Zhou and F. Deng , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2018, 57 , 10197 —10201 Search PubMed .
G. Qi , Y. Chu , Q. Wang , X. Wang , Y. Li , J. Trébosc , O. Lafon , J. Xu and F. Deng , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2020, 59 , 19532 —19538 Search PubMed .
D. Xiao , S. Xu , N. J. Brownbill , S. Paul , L.-H. Chen , S. Pawsey , F. Aussenac , B.-L. Su , X. Han , X. Bao , Z. Liu and F. Blanc , Chem. Sci., 2018, 9 , 8184 —8193 Search PubMed .
A. D. Chowdhury , K. Houben , G. T. Whiting , M. Mokhtar , A. M. Asiri , S. A. Al-Thabaiti , S. N. Basahel , M. Baldus and B. M. Weckhuysen , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2016, 55 , 15840 —15845 Search PubMed .
X. Zhou , C. Wang , Y. Chu , J. Xu , Q. Wang , G. Qi , X. Zhao , N. Feng and F. Deng , Nat. Commun., 2019, 10 , 1961 Search PubMed .
E. Lam , K. Larmier , P. Wolf , S. Tada , O. V. Safonova and C. Copéret , J. Am. Chem. Soc., 2018, 140 , 10530 —10535 Search PubMed .
A. D. Chowdhury , K. Houben , G. T. Whiting , S.-H. Chung , M. Baldus and B. M. Weckhuysen , Nat. Catal., 2018, 1 , 23 —31 Search PubMed .
C. Wang , M. Hu , Y. Chu , X. Zhou , Q. Wang , G. Qi , S. Li , J. Xu and F. Deng , Angew. Chem., Int. Ed., 2020, 59 , 7198 —7202 Search PubMed .
H. Nagashima , G. Tricot , J. Trébosc , O. Lafon , J.-P. Amoureux and F. Pourpoint , Solid State Nucl. Magn. Reson., 2017, 84 , 164 —170 Search PubMed .
This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry 2021