Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
B. Hammer*
Interdisciplinary Nanoscience Center (iNANO) and Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Aarhus,
DK-8000, Aarhus C, Denmark
An overview of recent advancements in density functional theory modeling of particularly reactive sites at noble and late
transition metal surfaces is given. Such special sites include sites at the ﬂat surfaces of thin metal ﬁlms, sites at stepped surfaces, sites
at the metal/oxide interface boundary for oxide-supported metal clusters, and sites at the perimeter of oxide islands grown on metal
surfaces. The Newns–Anderson model of the electronic interaction underlying chemisorption is described. This provides the
grounds for introducing the Hammer–Nørskov d-band model that correlates changes in the energy center of the valence d-band
density of states at the surface sites with their ability to form chemisorption bonds. A reactivity change described by this model is
characterized as an electronic structure eﬀect. Brønsted plots of energy barriers versus reaction energies are discussed from the
surface reaction perspective and are used to analyze the trends in the calculated changes. Deviations in the relation between energy
barriers and reaction energies in Brønsted plots are identiﬁed as due to atomic structure eﬀects. The reactivity change from pure Pd
surfaces to Pd thin ﬁlms supported on MgO can be assigned to an electronic eﬀect. Likewise for the reactivity change from ﬂat Au
surfaces, over Au thin ﬁlms to Au edges and the Au/MgO interface boundary. The reactivity enhancement at atomic step sites is of
both electronic and atomic structure nature for NO dissociation at Ru, Rh and Pd surfaces. The enhancement of the CO oxidation
reactivity when moving from a CO+O coadsorption structure on Pt(111) to the PtO2 oxide island edges supported by Pt(111) is,
however, identiﬁed as mainly an atomic structure eﬀect. As such, it is linked to the occurrence of favorable pathways at the oxide
island edges and is occurring despite of stronger adsorbate binding of the oxygen within the oxide edge, i.e. despite of an opposing
electronic eﬀect. As a ﬁnal topic, a discussion is given of the accuracy of density functional theory in conjunction with surface
reactions; adsorption, desorption, diﬀusion, and dissociation. Energy barriers are concluded to be more robust with respect to
changes in the exchange-correlation functional than are molecular bond and adsorption energies.
Theoretical modeling of heterogeneous catalysis can
be approached in a number of ways with focus on dif-
ferent physico-chemical processes. The most funda-
mental process is the bond-breaking and bond-making
of the individual molecules at the surface. However,
topics such as the physical appearance of the solid sur-
face (e.g. its degree of oxidation or corrugation), the
interaction at the surface of reactants, reaction inter-
mediates, and products (e.g. the degree to which they
form ordered surface structures), and the ﬂow of reac-
tants towards the surface and of products away from the
surface are other important fundamental processes. In
the present review, the emphasis will be on the quantum
mechanical modeling of the reaction energy proﬁles for
simple molecules adsorbing, dissociating, and recom-
bining at noble and late transition metal surfaces. Sev-
eral recent papers have reviewed the methodology used
in this work, namely density functional theory in con-
nection with modeling surfaces by the slab-method
[1–3]. In the present paper, such calculations issues are
therefore assumed known, however, a ﬁnal section is
devoted to a discussion of the accuracy of density
functional theory in conjunction with the modeling of
processes in heterogeneous catalysis. The review starts
with an outline of the theory of bonding of atoms
and molecules to planar, clean metal surfaces. Trends in
reaction energies and barrier heights from metal to
metal will be discussed. Then follows an introduction to
Brønsted plots. The presentation continues with an
overview of the calculated properties of several diﬀerent
local reaction conﬁgurations. These include the situa-
tions of thin metal ﬁlms, stepped surfaces, nano-sized
metal cluster edges, and three-phase boundary sites
realized either as gas phase/metal cluster/oxide support
or gas phase/oxide cluster/metal support systems.
1. Adsorption
Adsorption is the process of bond formation between
a solid surface, the adsorbent, and atoms or molecules,
the adsorbates [4]. Some weak bond formation arises
already at adsorbate–adsorbent separations of several ˚
A
due to van der Waals forces such as electrostatic
polarization and dynamic dipole correlations. The typ-
ical magnitude of these physisorption bonds is 0.06 eV
(ca. 6 kJ/mol) per methylene subunit in saturated, linear
hydrocarbons (alkanes) adsorbed over Au surfaces [5].
Stronger bond formation occurs only at separations
where the overlap of electronic orbitals in the adsorbent
and adsorbate systems allow for the formation of
* To whom correspondence should be addressed.
E-mail: hammer@phys.au.dk
Topics in Catalysis Vol. 37, No. 1, March 2006 ( 2006)
3
DOI: 10.1007/s11244-006-0004-y
1022-5528/06/0300–0003/0  2006 Springer Science
+Business Media, Inc.
covalent chemisorption bonds as sketched in ﬁgure 1.
The strength of such bonds depends strongly on the
surface material and the gasses of interest. Consider-
ing carbon monoxide, CO, as the adsorbate means
chemisorption bonds in the range 0.5–2 eV on the clean
surfaces of late transition metals [6–8].
2. The Newns–Anderson model
A detailed description of the molecular orbitals
responsible for the build up of covalent adsorption
bonds is normally not possible for metallic surfaces.
This is because of the large density of electronic states,
DOS, of the surface at the energies of the adsorbate
orbitals. In ﬁgure 1 two representative adsorbent wave-
functions are depicted illustrating the point that essen-
tially every electronic valence state of the adsorbent has
a wave-function of non-vanishing amplitude in the
region of the surface where the adsorbate approaches.
Whenever permitted by symmetry, this results – in a
tight-binding framework – in coupling matrix elements.
If only one surface state were important this would
cause the formation of bonding and anti-bonding linear
combinations of the wave functions. Depending on the
ﬁlling of these new states some total energy might be
gained explaining the bond formation mechanism. With
many adsorbent states having non-zero overlap with the
adsorbate state, a large set of interaction equations must
be solved simultaneously before a similar result is
obtained. The result is most conveniently illustrated in
various limits using the Newns–Anderson model [9].
In the Newns–Anderson model, the adsorption is
modeled by only three terms: (i) the energy-dependent
DOS of the adsorbent, q0(e), (ii) the discrete adsorbate
state at an energy ea, and (iii) a coupling strength |V|. At
the time the Newns–Anderson model was developed, it
was necessary to use simple expressions for q0(e) and a
semi-elliptic shape was chosen. This band can be char-
acterized by two parameters only, an energy center, ed,
and a band width, W. Nowadays, more complicated
expression for q0(e) can easily be handled, e.g. expres-
sions obtained from DFT simulations. Also today, an
energy or state dependence of |V| could be included, but
it remains more instructive to investigate the original
model with its few parameters.
With the above parameters, the Newns–Anderson
model predicts at the tight-binding level, the electronic
DOS at the adsorbate to shift from a delta-function at ea
to the distribution qa(e) given by
qaðeÞ ¼ 1
p
DðeÞ
ðe  ea  KðeÞÞ2 þ DðeÞ2 ;
DðeÞ ¼ pV2q0ðeÞ;
KðeÞ ¼ Pr
p
Z þ1
1
Dðe0Þ
e  e0 de0;
ð1Þ
where Pr denotes the principal value.
In ﬁgure 2 we explore various regions of parameter
space. In ﬁgure 2a, W is varied for constant ed – ea and
|V|, in Fig. 2b, |V| is varied for constant W and ed – ea
and in Fig. 2c, ed)ea is varied for constant |V| and W.
2.1. Increasing W
A fundamental situation is the ﬁrst panel in ﬁg-
ure 2a where W is very small and the adsorbent states
can be approximated as a single level. In this situation
part of the adsorbate DOS after interaction with the
adsorbent states is a delta function ever so slightly
Energy
DOS
Figure 1. Metallic states in the adsorbent surface (gray) and atomic
states at an adsorbate atom (red) interact to form states at many
energies on the adsorbate (blue).
-10
0
10
Energy (eV)
x2
x3
x6
x6
x6
-10
0
10
Energy (eV)
-10
0
10
Energy (eV)
Surface
Emptied adsorbate states
Surface
Adsorbate
Surface
Adsorbate
(a)
(b)
(c)
Electronic density of states (DOS)
Figure 2. Newns–Anderson model of interaction in an adsorption
system with a semi-elliptic DOS band (gray) at the surface and a delta-
function DOS on the,adsorbate before the interaction. The resulting
adsorbate state projected DOS (blue) takes a number of forms
depending on the parameters. (a) Increasing the bandwidth, W. (b)
Increasing the interaction strength, |V|. (c) Increasing the energy-
splitting, |"d)"a|.
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
4
down-shifted below the position before the interaction,
ea. Another part of the adsorbate DOS (after the
interaction) is a minute peak at the upper edge of the
adsorbent states. These two almost discrete parts are
equivalent to the solutions of the fundamental two-
level
problem
in
the
limit
of
weak
interaction
ðjVj  jed  eajÞ. The fact that the down-shifted delta
function has a prefactor of almost unity while the
trace signal above the adsorbent states is almost
vanishing reﬂects the large energy separation between
the (initial) adsorbate state and any of the (initial)
adsorbent states. Increasing the adsorbate band width,
W, moving to the right in ﬁgure 2a, the situation
changes. First some band states come closer to the
adsorbate state and the upper states in qa(e) intensify
and become a resonance in the whole band. Later as
W becomes so large that the adsorbate state is simply
embedded in a continuum, the qa(e) develops in to a
(lorentzian shaped) resonance centered at ea.
2.2. Increasing |V|
In ﬁgure 2b, the coupling strength is now increased
for the situation, where the adsorbate state is a resonance
at the bottom of the adsorbent band. At intermediate
coupling strengths (|V|  W) the resulting adsorbate
state becomes a resonance over the entire adsorbent
band and more importantly, a split-oﬀdelta state
appears below the band. For even larger coupling
strengths ðjVj  WÞ another split-oﬀdelta state appears,
now above the band and the resonance within the band
becomes negligible. This latter situation is easily recog-
nized as the two-level problem in the limit of strong
interaction ðjVj  jed  eajÞ and the lower split oﬀstate
is hence a bonding orbital while the upper split oﬀstate is
an anti-bonding state.
2.3. Increasing |ed)ea|
In ﬁgure 2c, we explore the dependence of the
adsorbate. DOS after the interaction as a function of
the initial position of the adsorbent DOS for constant
W and |V|. Obviously, since |ed)ea| increases, as the
band is shifted to higher energies, the initial strong
coupling situation with clearly discernible bonding and
anti-bonding states becomes less pronounced and the
anti-bonding
state
transforms
into
a
resonance.
Introducing now a Fermi-level by the dashed line we
can comment on the change in the adsorption bond as
the adsorbent band shifts in energy. The Fermi level is
assumed ﬁxed by the bulk properties of the adsorbent
system. It is seen from the ﬁgure that as the adsorbent
band moves to higher energies more anti-bonding
states (the high-lying qa(e) states) become depleted.
This means that the chemisorption bond is strength-
ened. A quantitative analysis of the total eigenenergy
sum can be used to support this argument [10].
3. The Hammer–Nørskov d-band model
Having seen the wealth of possibilities in the adsor-
bate DOS resulting from a single adsorbate state
interacting with an adsorbent band, we now turn to
analyze the result of full DFT calculations. In ﬁgure 3
the situation is investigated for a set of noble and late
transition metal close-packed surfaces supporting an
atomic oxygen adsorbate. Two DOS’s are shown; the
valence d-band-projected DOS before the interaction, q0
and the oxygen px-projected DOS after the interaction,
qa. For Cu, Ag, and Au, the strong-interaction limit
(last panel of ﬁgure 2b or ﬁrst panel of ﬁgure 2c) is
clearly recognized. One diﬀerence is, however, that the
split-oﬀstates are not delta-functions. This arises
because the adsorbate states also interact with the small
adsorbent DOS of valence s-character (not shown). The
s-band width of the late transition and noble metals is of
the order 20 eV meaning that this interaction takes .a
form which resembles the ﬁnal panel of ﬁgure 2a where
the delta-function character has been broadened out.
Considering the more reactive metals in ﬁgure 3, the
broader band width of the valence d-states of these
metals causes qa to take a more resonant character
within the band and to have a less pronounced anti-
bonding state at large energies, i.e. just like the middle
panels of ﬁgure 2b.
The presented Newns–Anderson-based understand-
ing of the electronic structure underlying the build up of
adsorption bonds is supported by X-ray emission and
adsorption experiments in the group of Nilsson [11–16].
In ﬁgure 4 the electronic states in the vicinity of the
Fermi-level are shown as measured for ordered struc-
tures of 0.5 monolayer (ML) of nitrogen adsorbed at
Figure 3. Density functional theory based, projected DOS for oxygen
adsorption at close-packed noble and late transition metal surfaces.
From Ref. [22].
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
5
either Ni(100) or Cu(100). The ﬁgure also includes the
DFT-based result for the electronic DOS. Since the
experimental methods are diﬀerent for ﬁlled and empty
states, the full DOS is obtained simply by adding the
two sets of data (not shown). It is clear that for both
systems distinct states develop at energies 5–7 eV below
EF and .at energies close to EF. These are the bonding
and anti-bonding states which are the most signiﬁcant
parts of the adsorbate DOS in the strong coupling limit.
The states are positioned right below and right above
the metal valence d-bands. For the noble metal, Cu, the
valence d-band is completely ﬁlled and located several
eV below EF. For this metal, the anti-bonding adsorbate
states are therefore also below EF and consequently ﬁl-
led. For the transition metal, Ni, the valence d-band is
only partially ﬁlled and hence has its top pinned at EF.
The anti-bonding adsorbate states thus appear just
above EF and are therefore empty. The reason for the up
to 3 eV [17] stronger dissociative N2 bonding at Ni
compared to Cu is now evident: Since for Cu both the
bonding and anti-bonding states of the adsorbate–ad-
sorbent-d interaction are occupied, this interaction can
only provide a repulsive energy contribution. The
magnitude of this repulsion increases with orbital size,
which in turn increases down a column of the Periodic
Table, explaining why gold, Au, becomes the metallic
element least prone to make adsorption bonds and
hence the most noble metal from the surface point of
view [18].
In ﬁgure 4 the adsorbent system is changed dramat-
ically as we move from Ni to Cu and it remains a
qualitative statement that the shift in the adsorbent
valence d-band DOS is responsible for the change in the
adsorption energy. In principle, also eﬀects of the band
widths and coupling matrix elements could be of
importance leave alone eﬀects of the change in the ad-
sorbent valence s-band DOS. In a series of papers,
Hammer, Nørskov, and co-workers [18–22] developed
and justiﬁed with density functional theory a framework
taking some of this into account while still maintaining a
great deal of simplicity. Considering only one type of
transition metal element the above reasoning of the
Hammer–Nørskov d-band model can be made more
quantitative as will be demonstrated in the following.
3.1. Reactivity of thin ﬁlms
As an example where the electronic eﬀects of the
bonding of adsorbates are captured well by the d-band
model we shall consider adsorption at nano-scale thin
metal ﬁlms over an oxide support. The bonding of
thin metal ﬁlms to oxide surfaces has been found to
occur involving both polarization and charge transfer
[23,24] and a problem of electron self-interaction in
ordinary DFT calculations has been identiﬁed [25].
The adsorption properties atop metal ﬁlms are less
likely to require measures to deal with the self-inter-
action
and
a
number
of
theoretical
studies
are
emerging on the topic [26–28].
In ﬁgure 5a four diﬀerent adsorbent systems all based
on the same element, palladium, Pd, are shown. The
adsorbent systems are the FCC-Pd(100) surface and thin
(1, 2, and 3 ML) commensurate ﬁlms of Pd on an
MgO(100) support. These systems are chosen so that
they all contain (almost) identical structural arrange-
ments of the Pd atoms locally where adsorbates are to
bond. The Pd atoms are quadratically arranged within
the surface in all cases and for atomic O, the adsorption
or reaction site is the four-fold hollow site (not shown),
while for CO it is the two-fold bridge site (shown). From
the point of view of the adsorbate, the local coordina-
tion with and distances to adsorbent metal atoms are
almost the same in every case. Hence in a Newns–
Anderson
modeling,
the
matrix
coupling
elements
would be similar for all four systems. From the point of
view of the ensemble of Pd atoms setting up the reaction
sites, the situation varies, however, signiﬁcantly from
adsorbent system to adsorbent system, since the local
surroundings of the reaction site varies signiﬁcantly.
Referring again to a Newns–Anderson modeling, this
means that the adsorbent DOS, q0(e), must vary, and
therefore also the adsorption bond strength.
In ﬁgure 5b is shown, how indeed, with a full DFT
description, it is found that the Pd valence d-band
Figure 4. Comparison of experimentally (upper) and theoretically
(lower) determined adsorbate DOS for nitrogen adsorption at Ni(100)
and Cu(100). To guide the eye, the theoretical DOS has been split in
separate ﬁlled (blue) or empty (red) state contributions (broadened
with 0.5 eV Gaussians). Adapted from Ref. [16].
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
6
DOS at the reaction site becomes more narrow and
shifts to higher energies as the Pd ﬁlm becomes more
and more thin. The narrowing is a consequence of the
lower Pd–Pd coordination present in the thin metal
ﬁlms. Band narrowing would on its own lead to
charging of the Pd atoms through donation from the
s-band, but apparently, this is energetically unfavor-
able and an electrostatic upshift occurs that keeps the
local d-band ﬁlling constant. In the following it is
desirable to have a simple parameterization of the
complicated DFT-based valence s-band and d-band
DOSs. It turns out that ignoring any s-band changes
and keeping only track of the center-of-energy (the 1st
moment) of the d-band DOS, ed, i.e. ignoring already
the band-width (the 2nd moment) provides a powerful
one-parameter framework for predicting and ratio-
nalizing the reactivity change of a reaction site with
changes in the surroundings.
Using DFT, the structure and stability of the
adsorption system before and after the adsorption
process can be evaluated for each of the four systems
(and each of the adsorbates). The resulting adsorption
potential energies are plotted in ﬁgure 5c as a function
of the d-band center, ed. A clear correlation between
the two values is seen. The dashed lines are guides to
the eye. For atomic oxygen adsorption, the
FCC-
Pd(100) point appears to be on the low side of the
correlation line demonstrating the natural limitations
of a one-parameter correlation model. In this case, the
O–Pd
distances
change
discontinuously
from
the
expanded thin ﬁlms to the relaxed crystal surfaces
meaning
that
probably
also
a description
of the
change in the coupling matrix element would be
required for a full understanding of the DFT result.
For the CO adsorption the eﬀect is much smaller and
the single parameter model describes all four adsorp-
tion energies surprisingly well.
From the CO and O adsorbed at the Pd surfaces,
CO2 may be formed involving much smaller energy
barriers than would apply for the reaction between
gaseous CO and O2. The transition states (TSs) for
the surface catalyzed reaction can be found in con-
junction with DFT calculations using the drag method
that
relies
on
some
(correctly
guessed!)
reaction
coordinate [29–31] or using more robust schemes such
as the nudged elastic band method [32]. Considering
how to ﬁnd transition states, it is instructive to note
that sometimes even several distinct reaction paths can
be determined as for instance was done by Sautet and
co-workers [33] for the dissociation of NO over Rh
and Pd surfaces and by Comelli and co-workers [34]
for CO oxidation on Rh(110).
In ﬁgure 6a the DFT-based structures of CO and O in
the associative CO2 desorption TS are shown for the Pd
systems considered above. Despite notable diﬀerences in
the relaxation pattern in the Pd surface, the variations
in the TS potential energies are still well described by the
d-band center as is apparent from ﬁgure 6b. Again, the
limitations of the model are obvious, the FCC-Pd(100)
points appearing too low and/or the 3-ML points
appearing too high for straight correlation lines.
The present insight by the Hammer–Nørskov d-band
model to the fundamental electronic structure of the
bonding of adsorbates at transition and noble metal
surfaces has also been obtained for a range of systems,
involving strained Ru and Cu surface [35,36], Ru sur-
faces under high coverage H, O, or N adsorption
structures [37], and alloy surfaces [38–41].
At this point, we conclude that changes in adsorption
potential energies, in transition state potential energies,
and hence in energy barriers may be sizeable when
originating from changes in the electronic structure. The
trends are often well captured by the d-band model.
Figure 5. (a) Structure of CO adsorbed over Pd (100) and Pd thin
ﬁlms supported by MgO(100). (b) d-projected DOS on the surface Pd
before the adsorption. (c) Correlation plot of adsorption potential
energies vs. the d-band center. Based on results in Ref. [26].
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
7
4. Brønsted plots
A heterogeneous catalyst serves to increase the rate of
a reaction by providing a reaction route with small
energy barriers. The reaction route might involve new
reaction intermediates compared to reaction in the gas
phase or in solution. The most obvious examples of
reaction intermediates are molecularly or dissociatively
adsorbed reactants.
Optimizing a surface catalyzed reaction involves
lowering the barrier for the rate-limiting step, i.e. the
reaction step that determines the overall reaction rate.
This must obviously be done without signiﬁcantly
increasing any other barriers along the reaction route so
as to introduce a new, worse rate-limiting step. As seen
in the preceding section, the potential energy of a TS can
easily be lowered (i.e. the TS be stabilized) by modifying
the morphology of the catalytic component. Speciﬁcally,
providing Pd as a nano-scale thin metallic ﬁlm on
an oxide support had a stabilizing eﬀect on the 2nd TS
of
the
COg þ 1
2 O2;g Ð COa þ Oa Ð CO2;g
reaction.
However, as evidenced by ﬁgure 6 also the stability of
the reaction intermediates, COa and Oa, was increased
at the MgO-supported Pd thin ﬁlms. Hence the net
eﬀect was an increase in the barrier height and the thin
ﬁlms therefore do not appear to oﬀer a more reactive
environment for the forward reaction.
The reason that the stability of the reactants in the
adsorption state and in the TS both change when the
adsorbent system is modiﬁed is evidently that the elec-
tronic structure eﬀect (as e.g. captured by the d-band
model) is strong both in the adsorption state and in the
TS. That the stability of initial, intermediate, transition,
and ﬁnal states might be correlated is an often-occurring
situation in chemistry. In fact, the Danish chemist,
Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted, formulated this principle
already in 1928 [42] with the empirical expression [43]:
dEa ¼ adDE
ð2Þ
where Ea is the reaction energy barrier, DE the reaction
energy, and a a constant between zero and one. In the
expression d signiﬁes the change in the energies when an
external parameter is changed, i.e. when the catalyst
material is replaced, alloyed, strained, deformed, or
otherwise modiﬁed.
4.1. Limiting cases
Figure 7 illustrates four limiting manifestations of the
Brønsted principle in conjunction with parts of a general
surface catalyzed reaction, ABg þ 2Cg Ð ACg þ BCg.
The reaction is envisaged to proceed via molecular and
dissociative
adsorption
of
the
ABg
molecule;
ABg Ð ABa Ð Aa þ Ba, adsorption of the C molecules:
2Cg Ð 2Ca, and associative desorption of the AC and
BC molecules: Aa þ Ca Ð ACg and Ba þ Ca Ð BCg.
The molecular adsorption of ABg (shown in ﬁgure 7a
and c) is considered non-activated while the dissociation
Figure 6. (a)
Structure
of
the
transition
states
for
associative
COa + Oa desorption (or for dissociative CO2,g adsorption over
Pd(100) and Pd thin ﬁlms supported by MgO(100). (b) Correlation
plot of adsorption potential energy (ﬁlled circles) and transition state
potential energy (ﬁlled squares) vs. the d-band center. Based on results
in Ref. [26].
Figure 7. Schematic potential energy diagrams illustrating the conse-
quences of the transition states being either initial state like, a=0 (a
and b) or ﬁnal state like, a=1, (c and d).
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
8
of the molecularly adsorbed molecule, ABa, is activated.
The desorption steps (shown in ﬁgure 7b and d) are
activated. The upper two subﬁgures of ﬁgure 7 depict
the situation where the transition states are initial state
like (early barriers), whereby the reaction energy bar-
rier changes very little when the catalyst material is
modiﬁed. The bottom two subﬁgures illustrate the sit-
uation that the transition states are ﬁnal state like (late
barriers), in which case the reaction energy barrier
becomes much dependent on modiﬁcations of the cata-
lyst.
For both the dissociation and desorption reactions,
the limiting cases are either constant energy barriers
(ﬁgure 7a and b) or energy barriers proportional to
the reaction energy (ﬁgure 7c and d). These cases are
the
Brønsted
relation
with
either
a=0
or
a=1.
Clearly some intermediate situation appears to be the
one most likely to be encountered. In the ﬁgure, useful
relations involving the (derivatives of) the potential
energies of the TS, ETS, and of the adsorbed state,
Eads are further given. The potential energy, Epre of
the molecularly adsorbed precursor state is considered
constant in-the present analysis to keep the complexity
of the ﬁgure low. It should be noted that the reverse
reaction of
ﬁgure 7d
is
analogue
to the
reaction
of ﬁgure 7a. Likewise ﬁgure 7b relates to ﬁgure 7c.
The redundancy is, however, introduced for clarity
reasons.
4.2. Thin metal ﬁlms revisited
Numerous density functional theory examples of the
applicability of Brønsted plots in conjunction with sur-
face catalyzed reactions have been given [10,43–51].
Here we return to the reactivity of Pd thin ﬁlms for an
example and plot in ﬁgure 8 two Brønsted type corre-
lation plots. The forward reaction, COa + Oa
ﬁ
CO2,g, has an a of approximately 0.25 resembling the
situation in ﬁgure 7b, where the TS is initial state like.
The reverse reaction has an a of about 0.75 making it
much similar to ﬁgure 7c, where the TS is ﬁnal state like.
Both plots thus indicate that the TS is much COa + Oa
like, which indeed can be realized by inspection of the
TS geometry plotted in ﬁgure 6a.
5. Cases of special sites
Up till now, we have only identiﬁed an electronic
structure eﬀect responsible for the bond strength of
adsorbates. This eﬀect occurred when the electronic
structure changed locally at the reaction site due to
atomic structure changes elsewhere in the system but not
necessarily at the reaction site. In this section we shall be
dealing with the consequences of changes in the bond
strength by changing the atomic structure of the ad-
sorbent system locally at the reaction site. Our main
objective is to identify special sites that are particularly
reactive.
5.1. Surface steps
Single crystal metal particles always have atomic
sized steps at their surfaces. In most cases, the steps
appear for entropic or kinetic reasons, but in certain
cases like Pt(110) they might even appear for energetic
reasons [52]. The metal atoms at the atomic steps have
smaller coordination to fellow surface-metal atoms and
hence a smaller d-band width is calculated for these
atoms. This in turn means the d-band center is upshifted
at step-metal atoms compared to at other surface-metal
atoms. According to the d-band.model, step-metal
atoms should thus be capable of binding adsorbates
more strongly than the surface-metal atoms, which is
indeed the result. The upshift in the d-band DOS causes
an upshift of the whole electrostatic potential which can
be measured by core-level spectroscopy [53,54].
As an example, ﬁgure 9a–c shows the transition state
for NO dissociation at the surface of ﬂat and stepped
Ru(0001) [44,55]. Comparing ﬁgure 9a and 9b, the cal-
culated barrier is seen to be reduced by 0.5 eV. This
reduction of energy barrier occurs for two completely
similar TS conﬁgurations, with the only diﬀerence that
for one system, a surface step has been introduced some
distance from the reacting molecule. The introduction of
(a)
(b)
Figure 8. Brønsted plots for the forward and backward COa +
Oa M CO2,g reaction.
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
9
the step elsewhere is aﬀecting the electronic structure
locally at the reaction site and the 0.5 eV energy barrier
reduction can therefore be assigned an electronic struc-
ture eﬀect. Comparing, however, ﬁgure 9b and 9c, the
barrier can be seen to be reduced by a further 0.7 eV
when an alternative TS structure only possible for the
stepped surface is exploited. This is now the atomic
structure eﬀect, since the local atomic arrangements in
the TS are changing. In the alternative TS, the dissoci-
ating molecule eﬀectively interacts with more Ru atoms
than in the TS on the ﬂat surface. Interacting with more
metal atoms can be translated into having a larger ad-
sorbent DOS, q0(e), in the Newns–Anderson model and
is hence favorable. Electronic and atomic structure
eﬀects are thus seen to contribute with comparable
quantities in stabilizing the TS and reducing the energy
barrier for the dissociation of a diatomic molecule at a
stepped, metallic surface [44,55].
The calculation of a lower energy barrier for NO
dissociation at stepped Ru, conﬁrms the experiments by
Wintterlin and co-workers [56], showing enhanced
concentration of atomically adsorbed nitrogen near
steps on Ru(0001) after exposure to NO. Dahl et al. [57]
adapted the ﬁnding in [44,55] of the TS in ﬁgure 9c to
the system of N2 dissociation on stepped Ru(0001) and
demonstrated nicely how the pollution of the Ru-step
sites by gold atoms caused a measured 5–6 orders of
magnitude decrease in the (dissociative) N2 sticking
coeﬃcient on Ru [57,58]. The step-eﬀect has by now
been described for a great number of systems [59–70]
albeit in certain cases, it appears to be absent [64,66,68]
depending on the molecule and metal investigated and
on the precise step geometry. In one study, the possi-
bility of enantio-selective adsorption of chiral molecules
at kinked Au surfaces was further investigated [71].
In ﬁgure 9d, a Brønsted-related plot of the NO dis-
sociation properties is shown. The ﬁgure contains values
for NO dissociation over Ru, Rh, and Pd close-packed
surfaces both with and without surface steps and over
the Pd(100) surface together with its realization as thin
ﬁlms on MgO(100). Despite that very dissimilar ele-
ments are considered, the values clearly group into three
sets as suggested by the lines guiding the eye. Within
each set, changes in the TS potential energy, ETS, thus
correlate closely with changes in the dissociative NO
adsorption potential energy, Eads. This is exactly the
situation of ﬁgure 7c, meaning than the TS for the NO
dissociation and the ﬁnal state (FS) of the individually
adsorbed N and O atoms have stabilities that depend
very similarly on changes in the adsorbent. In other
words, in the TS and FS conﬁgurations the adsorbate
must be interacting in a very similar way with the sur-
face. One criterion for this to be true must be a struc-
tural relationship between the TS and FS. Indeed,
inspection of the TSs show that they are very ﬁnal state-
like since the N–O bonds are rather extended.
Apparent from ﬁgure 9d is now the atomic structure
eﬀect, i.e. the importance of changing the atomic
structure of the surface locally at .the reaction site rather
than elsewhere so that the change is only mediated by an
electronic structure change. The three curves that appear
in ﬁgure 9d each describe reaction sites of one particular
geometric conﬁguration of the TS. With each given
conﬁguration, the data points are correlating as was
already seen when the electronic structure eﬀect was
investigated. However, the fact that the curves are dis-
placed from one another along the y-axis means that the
energy barriers are diﬀerent for the three sets of data.
Thus the barrier height changes appear to be intrinsic to
the reaction site geometries compared and largely
independent of the details of which metal (here Ru, Rh
or Pd) is considered.
In order to assess on the basis of ﬁgure 9d which
adsorbent system and reaction site is most reactive, one
would have to build a model of the kinetics of the
reaction. The simplest model would be that of coupled
diﬀerential equations for the reactant, reaction inter-
mediate, and product populations [72], while a more
Figure 9. Transition state geometries for NO dissociation over: (a) ﬂat
Ru(0001), (b) stepped Ru(0001), where the NO maintains its geometry
from the ﬂat surface, and (c) stepped Ru(0001), where the NO exploits
the atomic structure of the step. (d) Correlation of the transition state
potential energy and reaction energy for NO dissociation over several
diﬀerent Ru, Rh, and Pd related surfaces. Based on results in Refs.
[26,44,55,60].
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
10
accurate model allowing for inclusion of correlation
eﬀects (i.e., whether or not adsorbate pattern formation
or disordering occurs) would require kinetic Monte
Carlo simulations [73–75]. In the present work we shall
take an even simpler approach, demanding that barriers
be as low as possible while the bonding of any adsor-
bates be as weak as possible (in order to allow for low
barriers for their removal). The two criteria translate
directly into demanding the adsorbent system to be in
the lower-right part of ﬁgure 9d.
That the changes in ETS can be considered indicative
of the changes in Ea follows from the following argu-
ment:
The
associative
(i.e.
molecular)
adsorption
potential
energy,
Epre,
of
the
NO
molecule
is
e.g.)2.24()2.66) [55], )2.11, and )1.80()1.86) eV [60]
on close-packed (stepped) Ru, Rh, and Pd. Epre, thus
depend much more weakly on the metallic element and
type of surface, than do ETS. Hence, the variation of the
barrier, Ea=ETS)Epre must follow the variations in ETS.
Inspecting now ﬁgure 9d it seems that a good NO
reduction catalyst is probably one that contains Rh or
Pd surface steps, while oxide-supported Pd thin ﬁlms or
close-packed 4d-metal surfaces at this level of modeling
appear less likely to become eﬃcient. Nørskov and co-
workers [17,46,76] have taken the present arguments to
the level of including the full step of kinetic modeling
obtaining the same conclusion. Such a modeling reveals
the so-called Sabatier principle [43] that explains the
occurrence of a maximum reaction rate inside a transi-
tion metal series (rather than at the extrema) as the
compromise between increasing molecular dissociation
abilities moving left in the series and decreasing self-
poisoning by the dissociation products through their
weaker binding moving right in the series.
5.2. Metal clusters at oxide surfaces
For space-ﬁlling materials such as metallic crystals
the catalytic activity only takes place at the surface, as
opposed to more open materials, such as e.g. zeolites
[77]. It is therefore beneﬁcial to maximize the total
surface area per gram of metal crystal meaning that
the metal must be present as small clusters, crystal-
lites, supported on some porous material, most often
an oxide. As the size of the clusters approaches a few
nano-meter, ﬁnite size eﬀects aﬀecting the activity can
be found [78]. One well-studied example is gold, for
which the surface appears unreactive to oxidation
reactions except in the limit of very small nano-par-
ticles [79–81].
It has been suggested that for Au, the edge sites
present at the intersection of low-Miller-index planes of
the crystallites, are the reactive sites [82,83]. In this
picture, the increase in activity with decreasing cluster
size is explained merely as an increase in the relative
abundance of edge sites at the surface of the crystallites.
Another possibility often speculated about is that special
reaction sites appear at the perimeter of the Au-oxide
support interface. The activity of such sites was recently
investigated by Molina and co-workers [84–88], Hu et
al. [89], and Remediakis et al. [90].
In the present context we consider the test reaction of
2COg þ O2;g Ð COg þ ½CO  O2a Ð COg þ Oa þ CO2;g
Ð COa þ Oa þ CO2;g Ð 2CO2;g. The [COÆO2]a is an
O=C–O–O reaction intermediate bound to the surface
via the C and the terminal peroxo-O [91–94]. In ﬁg-
ure 10a seven diﬀerent realizations of Au structures
some of which are supported at MgO(100) are shown
with the [COÆO2]a present and in ﬁgure 10b the calcu-
lated potential energy diagram is sketched for one of the
Au structures. No large barriers are calculated along
the reaction pathway, so the key point in optimizing the
activity for this system seems to stabilize the reaction
intermediates, [COÆO2]a and Oa, rather than minimizing
energy barriers.
Plotting the potential energy of the two reaction
intermediates, [COÆO2]a and Oa, against one another, as
done in ﬁgure 10c, the data set is easily assessable, and
systems I, II, and IV (all Au–oxide interface perimeter
sites) are clearly seen to be best at binding the inter-
mediates. These are systems for which the adsorbates
may come close to the oxide surface, while at the same
time they bind to low-coordinated Au atoms in the
cluster. The proximity of the adsorbate to the support
allows for a stabilizing charge transfer [84,85]. For sys-
tem III (Au edge) or the (100) and (111) surfaces of bulk
Au, the binding of the adsorbates is either negligible or
endothermic.
Most of the data points in ﬁgure 10c lie on a line of
slope one revealing that for the corresponding structures
the electronic binding mechanisms of [COÆO2]a and Oa
are very similar. Three distinct deviations are, however,
indicated with vertical arrows. In these cases atomic
structure eﬀects are causing some net repulsion. For
system I, CO repulsion with the oxide causes a slight
destabilization of the [COÆO2]a. For system IV, the pe-
roxo-end of [COÆO2]a binds very diﬀerently from the
single atom, Oa, since structural constraints imposed by
binding the CO-end of the complex lifts its peroxo-end
away from the oxide support. Similarly, for the 2 ML
system, the favorable O binding with 1st layer Au
coordinating to the oxide can not be felt by the peroxo-
end of the complex.
The Brønsted-like correlation plot of ﬁgure 10d
ﬁnally conﬁrms the assertion that no sizable energy
barriers build up as a consequence of the change in
stability of the [COÆO2]a reaction intermediate. Indeed,
the plot takes the form sketched in ﬁgure 7b showing
that the dissociation energy barrier for the complex is
independent of the atomic and electronic structure of the
surrounding Au and oxide systems. The sizable increase
in
[COÆO2]a
stability
at
the
metal/oxide
interface
boundary sites, however, remains clear from ﬁgure 10c
and d.
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
11
At present, it must be concluded that metal/oxide
support interface boundary sites appear to be important
for stabilizing oxygen-containing reaction intermediates
on nano-sized gold clusters.
5.3. Oxide islands or clusters at metallic surfaces
Having seen in the preceding section that metal
clusters on oxide supports can become more reactive
than metal surfaces themselves it becomes natural to ask
if oxide clusters on metal supports would have a similar
eﬀect. Oxide particles may develop at metallic particles
(supported in turn by some inert oxide) if reaction
conditions are such that either oxidation becomes ther-
modynamically preferred or that other more stable
(non-oxidized) phases become kinetically inaccessible.
For Ru catalysts, recent surface science research [95] has
proven the surface to undergo complete oxidation at
realistic oxygen pressures, while for Pt catalysts PtO2
grains have been detected growing during oxygen rich
reaction conditions [96]. Also, the possibility of an oxide
phase involving a second metal element, for instance
from the support, or deliberately added exists [97,98].
In ﬁgure 11a we present the possible structure of the
edge of an of a-PtO2 oxide island grown on a close-
packed Pt metal surface otherwise covered by CO [99].
Depending on the relative registry of the CO overlayer
and the oxide islands, diﬀerent energy barriers for CO
oxidation at the oxide perimeter have been calculated,
the TS structures of which are shown in ﬁgure 11b
together with TS’s of CO oxidation from inside a
coadsorption structure of CO + O and from the phase
boundary between clean CO and CO + O adsorption
structures. The latter two situations are known to be
occurring experimentally [100] and are used for refer-
ence. The Brønsted-like plot of these energy barriers vs.
the adsorption potential energy of the reactants is given
in ﬁgure 1lc. The data points group along two lines each
of which follows the behavior expected from ﬁgure 7d.
For each group of data points, the trends are therefore
determined by ﬁnal state eﬀects, meaning that in the
transition state, the adsorbates interact with the surface
independently of most electronic structure eﬀects that
are otherwise aﬀecting the adsorbates in their adsorbed
state. The presence of two distinct lines in ﬁgure 11c
reﬂects that two diﬀerent TS structures are involved. In
the least stable TS (upper line), the CO–O interaction
appears across from a top to a hollow site in the Pt(111)
surface. In the most stable TS (lower line), the CO–O
interaction appears along a Pt–Pt bridge site. The results
show that the atomic structure eﬀect is at play and
highly responsible for the great barrier reduction at the
oxide edge. Studying the reactivity of surfaces involving
several diﬀerent thermodynamic phases of the active
component(s) as here both metallic Pt and oxidized Pt is
a promising ﬁeld for future density functional theory
modeling. One topic of particular importance is to
Figure 10. (a) Structure of seven diﬀerent Au systems with the
[COÆO2]a reaction intermediate adsorbed. Note type III is a good
model of edge sites on large Au clusters since the adsorbate is far from
the support. (b) Reaction energy proﬁle for the COg +O2,g M
[COÆO2]a M Oa+CO2,g reaction at the type II system. (c) Correlation
plot of the adsorption energies of [COÆO2]a and Oa. (d) Correlation
plot of the CO2,g formation energy barrier from [COÆO2]a vs. the
stability of the [COÆO2]a. The full line represents zero energy barrier,
ETS=Eads, Based on and adapted from Refs. [84, 85].
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
12
establish ways of validating the models used for the non-
equilibrium, multi-phase structures.
6. The accuracy of DFT
Before concluding this overview, a short discussion of
the accuracy of density functional theory will be given in
the
present
section.
The
formulation
of
density
functional theory is as such exact, only one important
functional of the electronic density, the exchange-corre-
lation (XC) functional, is unknown and must be
approximated. In practice, when implementing density
functional theory as a computer program, further
approximations are sometimes made (e.g. the pseudo-
potential approximation decoupling core and valence
electrons and the treatment of relativistic eﬀects only at
the scalar-relativistic level). Also in any practical imple-
mentation some numeric approximations (e.g. ﬁnite
basis sets and ﬁnite Brillouin zone samplings) are made.
While the two latter types of approximations are con-
trollable and may be tested by improving the complexity
of the codes or the level of numeric accuracy applied, the
approximation of the XC functional remains the critical
one. The simplest form for the XC functional appears in
the local density approximation (LDA):
EXC½n ¼
Z
nðrÞeLDA
XC fnðrÞgd 3r;
ð3Þ
where n(r) is the electronic charge density gradient.
More accurate XC descriptions are obtained in the
generalized gradient approximation (GGA) and involve
non-local functionals of the general form:
EGGA
XC ½n ¼
Z
ffnðrÞ; sðrÞgd3r;
ð4Þ
where s is the reduced density gradient proportional to
jrnj=n4=3. In the GGA-PBE XC functional, non-locality
exchange is introduced through an exchange enhance-
ment factor, FX, as:
EX½n ¼
Z
nðrÞXfnðrÞ; sðrÞgd3r
¼
Z
nðrÞLDA
X
fnðrÞgFXfsðrÞgd3r;
ð5Þ
where
F PBE
X
ðsÞ ¼ 1 þ j 
j
1þls2=j
that
obeys
1  F PBE
X
ðsÞ  1 þ j. The non-local correlation is treated
diﬀerently [101]. The PBE functional is a recasting of the
older, more widely used PW91 functional [102] yielding
almost identical results. GGA functionals generally
improve the bonding properties of molecules and the
cohesive energies of bulk metals. In some cases, GGA
functional are, however, found to worsen structural
properties such as equilibrium lattice constants of bulk met-
als. A slight change of FX to F RPBE
X
ðsÞ ¼ 1 þ jð1  els2=jÞ
that fulﬁlls F PBE
X
 F RPBE
X
 1 þ j was suggested in [103].
and termed the revised PBE functional, RPBE. This
functional has a favorable eﬀect on the description of
adsorption bond strengths, whichareoverestimated atthe
PBE level.
Understanding why GGAs improve the bond ener-
getics and why the GGA-RPBE is particularly good
mainly requires realizing that when bonds are formed,
either in molecules or between adsorbates and adsor-
bents, the area of iso-charge surfaces around the react-
ing atoms, molecules, or adsorbents is reduced as
illustrated with the dashed line in the bottom of
Figure 11. (a) CO adsorption structure on Pt(111) at the edge of an a-
PtO2 oxide island. (b) Transition state geometries for CO oxidation at
two diﬀerent CO-oxide island registries (Al and B1) and at the interior
or edge of an CO + O coadsorption phase at an otherwise CO
covered Pt(lll) surface (C and D). (c) Correlation plot of the CO
oxidation barrier vs. the binding energy (= minus the adsorption
potential energy) of the reactants. In conﬁgurations A2, A3, and A4
(B2), the oxide is positioned as in Al (B1), while the CO-overlayer is
shifted laterally. Based on and adapted from Ref. [99].
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
13
ﬁgure 12. These ‘‘surface’’ regions of small electron
density with sizeable density gradients are regions of
large s and hence regions with favorable exchange
energy
contributions
according
to
equation
(5)
ðXfnðrÞ; sðrÞg is always negative). With loss of such
‘‘surface’’ regions during bond formation we thus have
less and less energy stabilization the more ‘‘surface’’ is
lost when moving through the XC functional hierarchy
LDA, PBE to RPBE. This is seen in ﬁgure 12 as the
three total energies of LDA, PBE, and RPBE coming
closer and closer in energy to one another when moving
to the right in the ﬁgure.
With the simple ‘‘surface’’ area measure of the eﬀect
of XC-functional used we can now rationalize the
importance of the XC-functional for diﬀerent reactions
of importance for surface reactivity. This is done in
ﬁgure 13. The ﬁrst example, bond formation in the gas
phase is seen to have a strong dependence on the XC-
functional. This is addressed in detail by Kurth et al.
[104] and the RPBE functional is concluded to be the
superior of the three functionals considered in this work.
The next example is the adsorption process, here chan-
ges are again dramatic and the RPBE functional is
believed to be most reliable [103]. The third example is
the stability of adsorption in diﬀerent sites, for which a
worst case situation is considered in the middle panel of
ﬁgure 13. Here the energy of moving from the top-of-
step site to the foot-of step site changes its sign when
changing XC-functional. The reason for this behavior is
clearly that the ‘‘surface’’ around the adsorbate is
changed dramatically because the molecule has a larger
contact area with the surface at the foot-of-step site.
Comparing more like situations, the dependence on XC-
functional is less strong. However, serious deﬁciencies in
calculating site preferences have been identiﬁed for the
CO/Pt (111) system [105] and do not seem to be reme-
died by adjusting the exchange enhancement factor
alone, but need also improvement of the molecular
HOMO-LUMO gap [106,107]. The ﬁnal two examples
in ﬁgure 13 concern reaction energy barriers. For the
dissociation reaction the barrier increases, while for the
diﬀusion reaction, the barrier decreases, but in both
cases, the changes are moderate. The reason for the
diﬀerent sign in the two cases is clearly that the ‘‘sur-
face’’ around the atoms, molecules, and surface is
reduced from the initial to the transition state in the
dissociation reaction while it is increased in the diﬀusion
reaction.
The great dependence of calculated reaction energies
and barriers on the XC functional used demonstrates
that care must be taken to see if conclusions drawn from
a density functional theory simulation are sensitive to
the choice of XC functional. It is therefore often
instructive to present key results with more than one XC
functional. This is done by Nørskov and co-workers in a
recent density functional theory-based evaluation of the
reaction rate for ammonia synthesis over Ru catalysts
showing that since all adsorbates have their stability
shifted simultaneously with a change in the XC func-
tional, the overall reaction rate is a forgiving measure
Figure 12. Total potential energy (i.e. before subtracting the energy of
a reference system) of atomic oxygen, half the total potential energy of
an oxygen molecule, and the total potential energy of the adsorption
system of O/Ru minus the total potential energy of the adsorbent
system itself. Three diﬀerent XC functionals are used. The eﬀect of
changing the XC functional becomes weaker as the areas of iso-charge
surfaces around the oxygen become smaller when bonds are formed in
O2 and O/Ru. Based on Refs. [44,55].
Figure 13. Reaction energies and energy barriers using three diﬀerent
XC functionals for a number of reactions involving NO and the
surface of Ru. Based on Refs. [44,55].
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
14
which depends only weakly on the XC functional used
[76].
7. Conclusion
In the present overview, heterogeneous catalysts
exposing transition metal or noble metal surfaces have
been considered. The electronic interaction underlying
adsorption bonds between the catalytic surfaces and
molecules or atoms has been described. Using general
tight binding-based arguments and elaborate density
functional theory modeling, two critical properties of
the catalytic material was highlighted: In the electronic
structure eﬀect global changes in the structure, chem-
ical composition and physical state of the catalyst are
envisaged to lead to changes in the electronic structure
locally at the reaction sites. The sites therefore bind
the adsorbates diﬀerently even if the atomic structure
is unchanged at the reaction sites. In the atomic
structure eﬀect local changes in the structure of the
catalyst surface are seen to cause changes in the
possible transition state structures. When the changes
are favorable for the reaction, the sites are termed
special sites. Among the possible special sites discussed
are: surface step sites, metal cluster/oxide support
interfaces perimeters, and oxide island edges at metal
surfaces, For Ru, Rh, and Pd steps and Pt-oxide
island edges, the reactivity changes were related to an
energy barrier reduction. For the Au/oxide interface
perimeters, the reactivity changes were attributable to
a stabilization of a reaction intermediate, rather than
to a lowering of an energy barrier.
Acknowledgments
I thank W. X. Li, L. M. Molina, J. K. Nørskov, and
Z. Sljivancanin, for fruitful discussions and collabora-
tions. I am indebted to Lars B. Hansen for steady
technical support and encouragements. The Danish
Research Councils and Dansk Center for Scientiﬁc
Computing are acknowledged for ﬁnancial and com-
putational support.
References
[1] A. Groß, Surf. Sci. 500 (2002) 347.
[2] H. Gro
¨ nbeck, Topics Catal. 28 (2004) 59.
[3] Z.P. Liu and P. Hu, Topics Catal. 28 (2004) 71.
[4] G.P. Brivio and M.I. Trioni, Rev. Mod. Phys. 71 (1999) 231.
[5] D.J. Lavrich, S.M. Wetterer, S.L. Bernasek and G. Scoles, J.
Phys. Chem. B 102 (1998) 3456.
[6] W.A. Brown, R. Kose and D.A. King, Chem. Rev. 98 (1998)
797.
[7] Q.F. Ge, R. Kose and D.A. King, Adv. Catal. 45 (2000) 207.
[8] B. Hammer and J.K. Nørskov, Adv. Catal. 45 (2000) 71.
[9] D.M. Newns, Phys. Rev. 178 (1969) 1123.
[10] B. Hammer, Faraday Discuss. 110 (1998) 323.
[11] E.O.F. Zdansky, A. Nilsson, H. Tillborg, O. Bjo
¨ rneholm, N.
Ma
˚ rtensson, J.N. Andersen and R. Nyholm, Phys. Rev. B 48
(1993) 2632.
[12] T. Wiell, H. Tillborg, A. Nilsson, N. Wassdahl, N. Ma
˚ rtensson
and J. Nordgren, Surf. Sci. 304 (1994) L451.
[13] T. Wiell, J.E. Klepeis, P. Bennich, O. Bjo
¨ rneholm, N. Wassdahl
and A. Nilsson, Phys. Rev. B 58 (1998) 1655.
[14] A. Fo
¨ hlisch, M. Nyberg, P. Bennich, L. Triguero, J. Has-
selstro
¨ m, O. Karis, L.G.M. Pettersson and A. Nilsson, J. Chem.
Phys. 112 (2000) 1946.
[15] A. Fo
¨ hlisch, M. Nyberg, J. Hasselstro
¨ m, O. Karis, L.G.M.
Pettersson and A. Nilsson, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85 (2000) 3309.
[16] A. Nilsson, L.G.M. Pettersson, B. Hammer, T. Bligaard, C.H.
Christensen and J.K. Nørskov, Catal. Lett. 100 (2005) 111.
[17] T. Bligaard, J.K. Nørskov, S. Dahl, J. Matthiesen, C.H. Chris-
tensen and J. Sehested, J. Catal. 224 (2004) 206.
[18] B. Hammer and J.K. Nørskov, Nature 376 (1995) 238.
[19] B. Hammer and J.K. Nørskov, Surf. Sci. 343 (1995) 211; ibid.
359 (1996) 306 (E).
[20] B. Hammer, Y. Morikawa and J.K. Nørskov, Phys. Rev. Lett.
76 (1996) 2141.
[21] B. Hammer, O.H. Nielsen and J.K. Nørskov, Catal. Lett. 46
(1997) 31.
[22] B. Hammer and J.K. Nørskov, in: Chemisorption and Reactivity
on Supported Clusters and Thin Films NATOASI Series E:
Applied Sciences, R.M. Lambert and G. Pacchioni (eds), Vol.
331 (Kluwer, Dordrecht, 1997), pp. 285–351.
[23] A. Bogicevic and D.R. Jennison, Phys. Rev Lett. 82 (1999) 4050.
[24] D.R. Jennison and A. Bogicevic, Surf. Sci. 464 (2000) 108.
[25] A.E. Mattsson and D.R. Jennison, Surf. Sci. 520 (2002) L611.
[26] B. Hammer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 (2002) 016102.
[27] A. Roudgar and A. Groß, J. Electroanal. Chem. 548 (2003) 121.
[28] H. Gronbeck and P. Broqvist, J. Phys. Chem. B 107 (2003)
12239.
[29] B. Hammer, K.W. Jacobsen and J.K. Nørskov, Phys. Rev. Lett.
69 (1992) 1971.
[30] J.J. Mortensen, Y. Morikawa, B. Hammer and J.K. Nørskov,
J. Catal. 169 (1997) 85; ibid. 170 (1997) 412 (E).
[31] A. Alavi, P.J. Hu, T. Deutsch, P.L. Silvestrelli and J. Hutter,
Phys. Rev. Lett. 80 (1998) 3650.
[32] G. Henkelman, B.P. Uberuaga and H. Jonsson, J. Chem. Phys.
113 (2000) 9901.
[33] D. Loﬀreda, F. Delbecq, D. Simon and P. Sautet, J. Chem. Phys.
115 (2001) 8101.
[34] C.C. Cudia, S.W. Hla, G. Comelli, Z. Sljivancanin, B. Hammer,
A. Baraldi, K.C. Prince and R. Rosei, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001)
196104.
[35] M. Mavrikakis, B. Hammer and J.K. Nørskov, Phys. Rev. Lett.
81 (1998) 2819.
[36] Y. Xu and M. Mavrikakis, Surf. Sci. 494 (2001) 131; ibid. 505
(2002) 369 (E).
[37] B. Hammer, Phys. Rev. B 63 (2001) 205423.
[38] F. Delbecq and P. Sautet, Phys. Rev. B 59 (1999) 5142.
[39] N. Lopez and J.K. Norskov, Surf. Sci. 477 (2001) 59.
[40] J. Greeley and M. Mavrikakis, Nat. Mat. 3 (2004) 810.
[41] A. Groß, Topics Catal. 37 (2006) 29.
[42] N. Brønsted, Chem. Rev. 5 (1928) 231.
[43] R.A. van Santen and M. Neurock, Catal. Rev. Sci. Eng. 37
(1995) 557.
[44] B. Hammer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83 (1999) 3681.
[45] A. Logadottir, T.H. Rod, J.K. Nørskov, B. Hammer, S. Dahl
and C.J.H. Jacobsen, J. Catal. 197 (2001) 229.
[46] J.K. Nørskov, T. Bligaard, A. Logadottir, S. Bahn, L.B.
Hansen, M. Bollinger, H. Bengaard, B. Hammer, Z. Slji-
vancanin, M. Mavrikakis, Y. Xu, S. Dahl and C.J. H. Jac-
obsen, J. Catal. 209 (2002) 275.
[47] Z.P. Liu and P. Hu, J. Chem. Phys. 114 (2001) 8244.
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
15
[48] Z.P. Liu and P. Hu, J. Chem. Phys. 115 (2001) 4977.
[49] Z.P. Liu and P. Hu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 (2003) 1958.
[50] A. Michaelides, Z.P. Liu, C.J. Zhang, A. Alavi, D.A. King
and P. Hu, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125 (2003) 3704.
[51] X.Q. Gong, Z.P. Liu, R. Raval and P. Hu, J. Am. Chem. Soc.
126 (2004) 8.
[52] P. Hanesch and E. Bertel, Phys. Rev. Lett. 79 (1997) 1523.
[53] J. Gustafson, M. Borg, A. Mikkelsen, S. Gorovikov, E. Lund-
gren and J.N. Andersen, Phys. Rev. Lett. 91 (2003) 056102.
[54] A. Baraldi, S. Lizzit, G. Comelli, M. Kiskinova, R. Rosei,
K. Honkala and J.K. Norskov, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93 (2004)
046101.
[55] B. Hammer, Surf. Sci. 459 (2000) 323.
[56] T. Zambelli, J. Wintterlin, J. Trost and G. Ertl, Science 273 (1996)
1688.
[57] S. Dahl, A. Logadottir, R.C. Egeberg, J.H. Larsen, I. Chor-
kendorﬀ, E. Tornqvist and J.K. Nørskov, Phys. Rev. Lett. 83
(1999) 1814.
[58] S.Dahl,E.To
¨ rngvistandI.Chorkendorﬀ,J.Catal.192(2000)381.
[59] P. Gambardella, Z. Sljivancanin, B. Hammer, M. Blanc, K.
Kuhnke and K. Kern, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001) 056103.
[60] B. Hammer, J. Catal. 199 (2001) 171.
[61] L. Savio, L. Vattuone and M. Rocca, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001)
276101.
[62] Z. Sljivancanin and B. Hammer, Surf. Sci. 515 (2002) 235.
[63] M. Mavrikakis, M. Baumer, H.J. Freund and J.K. Nørskov,
Catal. Lett. 81 (2002) 153.
[64] Z. Sljivancanin and B. Hammer, Phys. Rev. B 65 (2002) 085414.
[65] Y. Xu and M. Mavrikakis, J. Phys. Chem. B 107 (2003) 9298.
[66] D. Loﬀreda, D. Simon and P. Sautet, J. Catal. 213 (2003) 211.
[67] Z.P. Liu, S.J. Jenkins and D.A. King, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 125
(2003) 14660.
[68] Q. Ge and M. Neurock, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 126 (2004) 1551.
[69] A. Wille, P. Nickut and K. Al-Shamery, J. Mol. Struct. 695 (2004)
345.
[70] E.H.G. Backus, A. Eichler, M.L. Grecea, A.W. Kleyn and
M. Bond, J. Chem. Phys. 121 (2004) 7946.
[71] Z. Sljivancanin, K.V. Gothelf and B. Hammer, J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 124 (2002) 14789.
[72] C.V. Ovesen, P. Stoltze, J.K. Nørskov and C.T. Campbell,
J. Catal. 134 (1992) 445.
[73] E.W. Hansen and M. Neurock, Chem. Eng. Sci. 54 (1999) 3411.
[74] M. Neurock, S.A. Wasileski and D. Mei, Chem. Eng. Sci. 59
(2004) 4703.
[75] K. Reuter, D. Frenkel and M. Scheﬄer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 93
(2004) 116105.
[76] K. Honkala, A. Hellman, I.N. Remediakis, A. Logadottir,
A. Carlsson, S. Dahl, C.H. Christensen and J.K. Nørskov, Sci-
ence 307 (2005) 555.
[77] J. Hafner Topics Catal. 37 (2006) 41.
[78] C.R. Henry, Surf. Sci. Rep. 31 (1998) 231.
[79] M. Haruta, N. Yamada, T. Kobayashi and S. Iijima, J. Catal.
115 (1989) 301.
[80] M. Valden, X. Lai and D.W. Goodman, Science 281 (1998) 1647.
[81] R. Meyer, C. Lemire, S.K. Shaikhutdinov and H.J. Freund,
Gold Bull. 37 (2004) 72.
[82] M. Mavrikakis, P. Stoltze and J.K. Nørskov, Catal. Lett. 64
(2000) 101.
[83] N. Lopez, T.V.W. Janssens, B.S. Clausen, Y. Xu, M. Mavrika-
kis, T. Bligaard and J.K. Nørskov, J. Catal. 223 (2004) 232.
[84] L.M. Molina and B. Hammer, Phys. Rev. Lett. 90 (2003) 206102.
[85] L.M. Molina and B. Hammer, Phys. Rev. B 69 (2004) 155424.
[86] L.M. Molina, M.D. Rasmussen and B. Hammer, J. Chem. Phys.
120 (2004) 7673.
[87] P. Broqvist, L.M. Molina, H. Gro
¨ nbeck and B. Hammer, J.
Catal. 227 (2004) 217.
[88] L.M. Molina and B. Hammer, Appl. Catal. A: General 291
(2005) 21.
[89] Z.P. Liu, X.Q. Gong, J. Kohanoﬀ, C. Sanchez and P. Hu, Phys.
Rev. Lett. 91 (2003) 266102.
[90] I.N. Remediakis, N. Lopez and J.K. Nørskov, Angew. Chem.
Int. Ed. 44 (2005) 1824.
[91] A. Eichler and J. Hafner, Surf. Sci. 433–435 (1999) 58.
[92] A. Eichler and J. Hafner, Phys. Rev. B 59 (1999) 5960.
[93] N. Lopez and J.K. Nørskov, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 (2002)
11262.
[94] Z.P. Liu, P. Hu and A. Alavi, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 124 (2002) 14770.
[95] H. Over, Y.D. Kim, A.P. Seitsonen, S. Wendt, E. Lundgren,
M. Schmid, P. Varga, A. Morgante and G. Ertl, Science 287
(2000) 1474.
[96] B.L.M. Hendriksen and J.W.M. Frenken, Phys. Rev. Lett. 89
(2002) 046101.
[97] T.W. Hansen, J.B. Wagner, P.L. Hansen, S. Dahl, H. Topsoe
and C.J.H. Jacobsen, Science 294 (2001) 1508.
[98] Z.P. Liu, S.J. Jenkins and D.A. King, J. Am. Chem. Soc. 126
(2004) 10746.
[99] W.X. Li and B. Hammer, Chem. Phys. Lett. 409 (2005) 1.
[100] J. Wintterlin, S. Vo
¨ lkening, T.V.W. Janssens, T. Zambelli and G.
Ertl, Science 278 (1997) 1931.
[101] J.P. Perdew, K. Burke and M. Ernzerhof, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77
(1996) 3865.
[102] J.P. Perdew, J.A. Chevary, S.H. Vosko, K.A. Jackson, M.R. Pe-
derson, D.J. Singh and C. Fiolhais, Phys. Rev. B 46 (1992) 6671.
[103] B. Hammer, L.B. Hansen and J.K. Nørskov, Phys. Rev. B 59
(1999) 7413.
[104] S. Kurth, J.P. Perdew and P. Blaha, Int. J. Quant. Chem. 75
(1999) 889.
[105] P.J.
Feibelman,
B.
Hammer,
J.K.
Nørskov,
F.
Wagner,
M. Scheﬄer, R. Stumpf, R. Watwe and J. Dumesic, J. Phys.
Chem. B 105 (2001) 4018.
[106] A. Gil, A. Clotet, J.M. Ricart, G. Kresse, M. Garcia Hernandez,
N. Rosch and P. Sautet, Surf. Sci. 530 (2003) 71.
[107] S.E. Mason, I. Grinberg and A.M. Rappe, Phys. Rev. B 69
(2004) 161401.
B. Hammer/Special sites at noble and late transition metal catalysts
16
