<quotes>
[1] "Understanding how a substrate molecule is transformed into a reaction product over a catalytic material is a curiosity driven challenge."
[2] "This approach, which most catalyst scientists are following to unravel the working principles of catalyst materials, involves determining the catalytic activity and selectivity of the catalyst."
[3] "This approach can be named predictive catalysis or knowledge-based catalyst design."
[4] "Unfortunately, only in a limited number of cases such detailed understanding has already been achieved."
[5] "The development of such a network can occur at different levels of sophistication of which the simplest is the formulation of the elementary reaction steps and a description of the overall nature of the catalytic active site."
[6] "Understanding catalytic reactions at a fundamental level implies that the developed reaction network should be experimentally and theoretically tested in sufficient detail."
[7] "However, the establishment of useful QSARs is far from evident, simply because the experimental conditions to perform both type of measurements; i.e., catalytic and spectroscopic experiments, are mostly not identical."
[8] "The field of operando spectroscopy is under intense development and the ultimate dream is still to perform the ideal in situ-or-better operando-experiment as outlined by Haw."
[9] "For more detailed accounts and an overview of the possibilities and limitations of spectroscopic techniques, the reader is referred to review papers, two special issues in Topics in Catalysis, and two textbooks."
[10] "Active sites can be defined as entities, which directly participate in the catalytic reaction cycle."
[11] "Determining active sites with operando spectroscopy is complicated by at least two properties of the catalyst material:"
[12] "One of the challenges is to discriminate between spectator species and species actively involved in the catalytic event and to decrease the time necessary for measuring unusual states and reaction intermediates in an active catalyst."
[13] "Based on these observations, one can try to make an attempt of a roadmap for operando spectroscopic studies."
[14] "The first step in Area 1 is Measuring better, which means that spectroscopic and catalytic measurements should be done on the same catalyst material at the same time and under optimal spectroscopic and catalytic conditions."
[15] "Step 2 in Area 1 is Measuring faster and refers to developing the field of time-resolved spectroscopy in the sub-second region."
[16] "Finally, Step 3 in Area 1 is Measuring more and implies that we should combine two or more spectroscopic techniques in one spectroscopic-reaction cell."
[17] "An example of an operando set-up for heterogeneous catalysts for gas-phase and slurry phase reactions meeting the ambitions of Area 1 is currently under development at Utrecht University."
[18] "It is fair to say that operando spectroscopy of homogeneous catalysis (mono-phase reaction systems) is relatively simple because the catalyst material can be more easily explored with spectroscopic techniques."
[19] "One of the most important difficulties is that the signals of interest from the interface are usually much smaller than the signals of the surrounding liquid phase (and gas phase)."
[20] "This requires the development of site-selective spectroscopy-microscopy techniques."
[21] "A nice step towards such approach has been recently achieved by Niemantsverdriet and co-workers."
[22] "These authors were able to visualize the polymerization activity of a single Cr polymerization site in a surface model Cr/SiO2 catalyst."
[23] "This catalytic reaction is considered to be a combination of two non-catalytic reactions, namely destructive adsorption of CCl4 on the surface of the lanthanide oxide and concurrent dechlorination of the formed partially chlorinated lanthanide oxide by steam."
[24] "Operando Raman spectroscopy has been used to identify the active phases in La2O3 and 10 wt.% La2O3/Al2O3 catalysts during the decomposition of CCl4 decomposition in the presence of steam at 350C."
[25] "Complete CCl4 conversion, however, was still obtained, suggesting that LaOCl, in addition to a La2O3 phase, is catalytically active."
[26] "In a second series of experiments, the effect of the amount of steam in the inlet feed was investigated with operando Raman spectroscopy by changing the H2O to CCl4 molar ratio from 360 to 10."
[27] "When steam was added again to the system, a complete CCl4 destruction was readily regained."
[28] "In order to obtain more insight in the reaction mechanism we have conducted density functional theory (DFT) calculations on a periodic La2O3(001) model surface."
[29] "Similarly to CCl4, the COCl2 intermediate can adsorb on terminal lattice oxygen atoms to form a second surface reaction intermediate, OCOCl."
[30] "Unfortunately, operando vibrational spectroscopy does not allow detecting the proposed surface reaction intermediates."
[31] "Finally, the LaCl3 phase cannot be regarded as an active catalyst material and high H2O to CCl4 molar ratios in the feed are crucial in order to keep the catalyst surface sufficient chlorine-free to be able to destroy CCl4 molecules."
[32] "Actually, this catalytic system was used in our laboratory as a model reaction to develop the operando approach for measuring catalytic solids in a better, faster and combined spectroscopic way."
[33] "We are now expanding the potential of this operando set-up by including the EXAFS technique and future experiments on the Cr/Al2O3 catalyst will be done with the set-up described in Fig. 3."
[34] "The presence of an isobestic point at around 582 nm confirms this gradual transformation of Cr6+ to a second Crn+-species (with n<6)."
[35] "During the catalyst regeneration the operando UVVIS spectra return completely to the initial state of Fig. 15, but the re-oxidation of Cr3+ to Cr6+ with oxygen is much slower than the reduction of surface chromate in propane during the dehydrogenation cycle."
</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>
1. The challenge in understanding the transformation of a substrate molecule into a reaction product over a catalytic material lies in its complexity, requiring a deep understanding of the catalytic reaction cycle, the nature of the active site, and the dynamics involved. Predictive catalysis or knowledge-based catalyst design aims to achieve this understanding, but detailed insights have only been reached in a limited number of cases.

2. The process of unraveling the working principles of catalyst materials involves first determining the catalytic activity and selectivity of the catalyst. This is followed by characterizing the catalyst with spectroscopic techniques, usually as a function of experimental parameters such as reaction temperature, pressure, catalyst composition, etc.

3. The development of a reaction network to describe the catalytic process can occur at various levels of sophistication, ranging from the elementary reaction steps to a comprehensive understanding of the active site and its coordination environment.

4. Establishing quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs) is challenging because the experimental conditions for spectroscopic and catalytic measurements are often incompatible. Operando spectroscopy aims to bridge this gap by studying catalysts under real reaction conditions.

5. The ultimate goal of operando spectroscopy is to perform an ideal in situ-or-better operando experiment, as outlined by Haw. This involves developing advanced technology to study catalysts without compromising time scale, temperature, pressure, or reactor design.

6. To advance operando spectroscopy, a roadmap has been proposed with three areas: measuring better, measuring faster, and measuring more. This includes improving spectroscopic techniques, expanding their application to multi-phase reaction systems, and developing single molecule and single site operando spectroscopy-microscopy.

7. In the case of lanthanide oxide-based catalysts, operando Raman spectroscopy was used to identify the active phases during the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam. The study showed that an almost complete transformation of La2O3 into LaOCl occurred, with the formation of a LaCl3 phase after prolonged exposure to the reaction conditions.

8. By varying the molar ratio of water to CCl4 in the inlet feed, the effect of steam on the catalytic solid was investigated. High steam levels preserved the catalytic solid in its La2O3 form, allowing for complete CCl4 conversion, while low water ratios led to the rapid chlorination of La2O3 and a loss of catalytic activity.

9. Operando IR spectra were collected to investigate the formation of possible gaseous intermediates during the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam. Peaks at 2890, 2348, 2143, and 1827 cm-1 were attributed to HCl, CO2, CO, and COCl2, respectively.

10. The addition of oxygen to the system resulted in a decrease of the catalyst activity, suggesting that the active site for the process involves lattice oxygen rather than adsorbed oxygen. Gas-phase CCl4 competes for the active sites.

11. Density functional theory (DFT) calculations on a periodic La2O3(001) model surface confirmed the reaction mechanism for the decomposition of CCl4 in the presence of steam. The first step involves the stepwise chlorine donation from the hydrocarbon to the surface, followed by chlorine removal with steam.

12. The second step of the catalytic process involves the dechlorination of the catalyst surface with steam and the refreshing of the surface with lattice oxygen atoms. This was confirmed by operando spectroscopy findings that both La2O3 and LaOCl are active catalyst phases.

13. In the case of supported chromium oxide catalysts, operando UVVIS and Raman spectroscopy were used to study the alkane dehydrogenation sites. The UVVIS spectra showed that pseudo-octahedral Cr3+-sites are formed under typical alkane dehydrogenation conditions and are proposed as the active sites for this catalytic process.

14. The operando approach allowed simultaneous measurement of UVVIS, Raman, and catalytic data during dehydrogenation-regeneration cycles. The conversion of propane to propene gradually increased with time, reaching a maximum of 10% at the end of the dehydrogenation cycle.

15. The UVVIS spectra showed a gradual transformation of Cr6+ to a second Crn+-species (with n<6) during the dehydrogenation cycle. This transformation was confirmed by the presence of an isobestic point at around 582 nm.

16. During the catalyst regeneration, the operando UVVIS spectra returned to the initial state, but the re-oxidation of Cr3+ to Cr6+ with oxygen was much slower than the reduction of surface chromate in propane. This suggests that the active Cr3+-sites are somehow buried by coke or partially diffusing into the alumina support surface, hampering their fast re-oxidation.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>
1. 理解一个基质分子如何在催化剂材料上转化为反应产物是一个由好奇心驱动的挑战。这涉及到催化反应周期、活性位点的性质及其动态的理解。

2. 揭示催化剂工作原理的过程首先确定催化剂的催化活性和选择性，然后使用光谱技术进行表征，这些表征通常与一组实验参数（如反应温度、压力、催化剂组成等）有关。

3. 反应网络的开发可以在不同程度的复杂性中进行，从描述基本反应步骤到全面理解活性位点及其配体环境的描述。

4. 建立定量结构-活性关系（QSAR）具有挑战性，因为进行这两种测量（即催化和光谱实验）的实验条件通常是不一致的。原位光谱学旨在通过研究催化剂在真实反应条件下进行。

5. 实现的理想原位或更好的原位实验是Haw概述的目标。这需要发展先进的技术，无需在时间尺度、温度、压力或反应器设计方面做出妥协。

6. 为了推进原位光谱学，提出了一个路线图，包括三个领域：更好地测量、更快地测量和更多地测量。这包括改进光谱技术、扩展其对多相反应系统的应用，并发展单分子和单位点原位光谱学显微镜。

7. 对镧系氧化物基催化剂的研究显示，在蒸汽存在下分解CCl4期间，通过原位拉曼光谱可以识别活性相。研究结果表明，La2O3几乎完全转化为LaOCl，形成LaCl3相后持续暴露于反应条件。

8. 通过改变水和CCl4的进料摩尔比，研究了蒸汽对催化固体的影响。高蒸汽水平保留了催化固体的La2O3形式，允许完成CCl4转化，而低水分比例导致La2O3快速氯化并损失催化活性。

9. 收集了原位红外光谱来研究蒸汽存在下分解CCl4时可能形成的气体中间体。峰值分别位于2890、2348、2143和1827 cm-1，分别归因于HCl、CO2、CO和COCl2。

10. 向系统中添加氧气导致催化剂活性下降，表明该过程的活性位点涉及晶格氧而不是吸附氧。气态CCl4与活性位点竞争。

11. 使用密度泛函理论（DFT）计算了周期性La2O3(001)模型表面的反应机制。第一阶段涉及从碳氢化合物向表面的氯捐赠步骤，随后是蒸汽中的氯移除。

12. 第二步的催化过程涉及用蒸汽刷新催化剂表面并用晶格氧原子更新表面。这一发现证实了原位光谱学结果，表明La2O3和LaOCl都是活性催化剂材料。

13. 对支持的铬氧化物催化剂的研究利用原位紫外可见光谱和拉曼光谱来研究烷烃脱氢作用位点。紫外可见光谱表明，在典型的烷烃脱氢条件下，形成伪八面体Cr3+-位点，并被提议为这种催化过程的活性位点。

14. 原位方法允许同时测量紫外可见、拉曼和催化数据，在脱氢再生循环期间。丙烷转化为丙烯的转化率逐渐增加，达到最大值10%，出现在脱氢循环结束时。

15. 紫外可见光谱显示，在脱氢循环期间，Cr6+逐渐转化为第二个Crn+-物种（n<6）。这一点由大约582 nm处的等温峰确认。

16. 在催化剂再生过程中，紫外可见光谱恢复到初始状态，但Cr3+氧化回Cr6+与氧气的速度远慢于丙烷期间表面铬酸盐的还原。这表明活性Cr3+-位点可能部分埋藏在焦炭中或扩散到氧化铝支撑表面中，阻碍它们的快速氧化。
</ChineseVersionAnswer>
