<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The composition, structure, and reaction conditions of metal-based catalysts, including supported vanadium oxides and metal-exchanged zeolites, significantly influence the mechanisms and efficiency of alkane transformations, particularly in processes such as oxidative dehydrogenation and zeolite-catalyzed reactions. The study of propane oxidative dehydrogenation on single-crystal V2O5(001) by periodic density functional theory (DFT) calculations reveals that the CH bond of propane can be activated by both the terminal and the bridging lattice O atoms on the surface with similar activation energies. At the terminal O site, both the radical and the oxo-insertion pathways are likely for the CH bond activation, while only the oxo-insertion mechanism is feasible at the bridging O site. Compared to that at the terminal O site, the propene production from the propoxide at the bridging O site is much easier due to the weaker binding of propoxide at the bridging O. It is concluded that single-crystal V2O5(001) is not a good catalyst due to the terminal O being too active to release propene. An efficient catalyst for the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) reaction has to make a compromise between the ability to activate the CH bond and the ability to release propene. The activity and selectivity of the catalyst depend on its reducibility and basicity. To achieve high activity and selectivity, the presence of highly dispersed vanadium is crucial. The reaction mechanism can be described as (i) the reduction of the oxide surface by hydrocarbon and (ii) the subsequent reoxidation by the gas-phase oxygen. The propane conversion and the propene selectivity are often inversely related. The factors contributing to their industrial significance include the ever-increasing worldwide demand for olefins, the need for alternative inexpensive ways to produce light olefins in industry, and the advantages of the oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) process, such as being thermodynamically favored even at low temperatures and not leading to the formation of coke and lower-molecular weight byproducts such as CO.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.金属基催化剂的组成、结构和反应条件，包括负载型五氧化二钒和金属交换沸石，对烷烃转化，特别是在氧化脱氢和沸石催化反应等过程中的机制和效率有重大影响。通过周期性密度泛函理论(DFT)计算研究丙烷在单晶V2O5(001)表面的氧化脱氢反应，发现丙烷的CH键可以被表面的终端和桥接晶格O原子激活，激活能相似。在终端O位点，CH键活化可能通过自由基和氧插入两种途径，而在桥接O位点，只有氧插入机制可行。与终端O位点相比，桥接O位点的丙烯从丙氧基的生成容易得多，因为丙氧基在桥接O上的结合较弱。结论是单晶V2O5(001)不是一个好的催化剂，因为终端O太活跃，无法释放丙烯。一个有效的氧化脱氢(ODH)反应催化剂必须在激活CH键的能力和释放丙烯的能力之间做出妥协。催化剂的活性和选择性取决于其还原性和碱性。为了实现高活性和选择性，高度分散的钒的存在是至关重要的。反应机制可以描述为(i)烃类对氧化物表面的还原和(ii)随后由气相氧的再氧化。丙烷转化率和丙烯选择性通常成反比。它们在工业上的重要性因素包括全球对烯烃日益增长的需求，对工业中生产轻烯烃的替代廉价方法的需求，以及氧化脱氢(ODH)过程的优点，如即使在低温下也热力学上有利，不会导致焦炭和低分子量副产品如CO的形成。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
