<quotes>

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The literature does not provide specific information on the key strategies and approaches that have been recently developed to enhance the catalytic stability of supported metal catalysts in direct dehydrogenation processes. However, it does discuss various methods for improving catalyst design, fabrication, and performance optimization for industrial applications. These include advanced synthesis strategies such as atomic layer deposition (ALD) and single-atom metal catalyst (SOMC) approaches to finely control the structure of Pt- or oxide-based active sites in dehydrogenation (DH) catalysts. The use of proper supports such as oxides and zeolites through the strong metal-support interaction (SMSI) effect and confinement effect can localize subnanometric or single-atom/single-atom alloy (SA/SAA) Pt-related metal sites, which exhibit unique catalytic performances compared to larger metal ensembles. Geometric and electronic modification effects by promoter species can also be well regulated using favorable synthesis methods. High-resolution characterization techniques, such as in situ X-ray absorption spectroscopy (XAS) and high-angle annular dark-field scanning transmission electron microscopy (HAADF-STEM), can provide effective structural information of the catalysts, allowing us to establish the real relationships between adsorption and catalytic properties. Efforts are being made to construct stable structures for small-sized metallic or ionic active sites to maximize catalytic efficiency in selective alkane DH reactions. Selective activation of alkane C-H bonds and prohibition of C-C cleavage and other side reactions are critical to achieve high olefin selectivity and great long-term stability. The localization of metallic atoms or ions on metal oxide matrixes or zeolite frameworks may induce the formation of new active sites involved in synergistic reaction mechanisms or undesired pathways. The complete functions of surface acid sites should be profoundly realized, not limited to their negative roles in catalyzing C-C cracking, deep dehydrogenation, or coking processes. The understanding of the catalyst structure-activity relationship and mechanism for alkane oxidative dehydrogenation (ODH) processes may provide a reference for the structural design of DH catalysts, although different tasks and limitations exist between these two processes. Novel boron nitride (BN)-based or boron (B)-related materials offer promising alternatives to commonly studied metal oxides such as vanadium oxide (VOx) and chromium oxide (CrOx) and can catalyze key steps of selective alkane ODH reactions, such as C-H activation and olefin desorption, in particular pathways. The irreversible coke deposition for deactivation is the most important issue that all DH catalysts suffer from. Several strategies have been performed to solve this problem, including modifying the electronic properties of metallic Pt and other active metals or metal oxides by promoters or supports, geometric modification on active sites through isolation effects, and eliminating possible active sites responsible for coking on selected supports. The reaction atmosphere is another factor affecting the formation of coke species, and the co-feeding of steam vapor and hydrogen is a reported method to reduce the coke amount. However, there are rare reports to systematically discuss the catalytic roles of these co-fed gases in alkane DH reactions over non-Pt catalysts. To further increase the single-pass yield of alkane DH reactions, the removal of hydrogen from the mixture of products can shift the equilibrium to the production of olefins by using Pd- or zeolite-based membrane reactors. However, the effect of hydrogen as a coke inhibitor is weakened, and the coking issue and catalyst stability remain a challenge. Another crucial issue related to stability for metal or metal oxide-catalyzed alkane DH processes is the dynamic structural stability of metallic or ionic active sites during the reaction and regeneration treatment. Although the SMSI effects can effectively stabilize active sites against high reaction temperatures and reductive atmospheres in DH reactions, overly strong interactions can cause active metals to be embedded into subsurface, lattice layers, or frameworks, reducing accessibility or even intrinsic activity of active sites. This results in a relatively longer induction period in the initial reaction stage for completing the pre-activation of these active sites, which is not ideal due to its low efficiency of raw gases and energy and increases the difficulty of acquiring the real structure-activity relationship and proposing a convincing mechanism. A moderate interaction among metals, promoters, and supports will be pivotal for the design of DH catalysts, and an efficient pretreatment procedure needs to be developed.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.文献没有提供关于最近开发的增强支撑金属催化剂在直接脱氢过程中的催化稳定性的关键策略和方法的具体信息。但是，它确实讨论了各种方法，以改善催化剂设计、制造和性能优化，用于工业应用。这些包括先进的合成策略，如原子层沉积（ALD）和单原子金属催化剂（SOMC）方法，以精细控制Pt或氧化物基活性位点在脱氢（DH）催化剂中的结构。通过强金属-支撑相互作用（SMSI）效应和限制效应，使用适当的支撑，如氧化物和沸石，可以定位亚纳米或单原子/单原子合金（SA/SAA）Pt相关金属位点，与较大的金属集合相比，这些位点表现出独特的催化性能。通过有利的合成方法，可以很好地调节促进剂物种的几何和电子修饰效果。高分辨率表征技术，如原位X射线吸收光谱（XAS）和高角度环形暗场扫描透射电子显微镜（HAADF-STEM），可以提供催化剂的有效结构信息，使我们能够建立吸附和催化性质之间的实际关系。正在努力构建小尺寸金属或离子活性位点的稳定结构，以最大限度地提高选择性烷烃DH反应中的催化效率。选择性激活烷烃C-H键，禁止C-C裂解和其他副反应，对于实现高烯烃选择性和优异的长期稳定性至关重要。将金属原子或离子定位在金属氧化物基质或沸石框架上，可能会诱导形成新的活性位点，参与协同反应机制或不希望的途径。应该深刻认识到表面酸位的完整功能，而不仅仅局限于它们在催化C-C裂解、深度脱氢或焦化过程中的负面作用。对烷烃氧化脱氢（ODH）过程的催化剂结构-活性关系和机制的理解，可能为DH催化剂的结构设计提供参考，尽管这两个过程之间存在不同的任务和限制。新型硼氮化物（BN）基或硼（B）相关材料为通常研究的金属氧化物（如V2O5和CrOx）提供了有希望的替代品，并且可以在特定途径中催化选择性烷烃ODH反应的关键步骤，例如C-H激活和烯烃解吸。所有DH催化剂都遭受不可逆焦炭沉积导致的失活，这是最重要的问题。已经执行了几种策略来解决这个问题，包括通过促进剂或支撑修改Pt和其他活性金属或金属氧化物的电子性质，通过隔离效应在活性位点上进行几何修改，以及消除选定支撑上负责焦化的可能活性位点。反应气氛是影响焦炭物种形成的一个因素，据报道，共喂入蒸汽和氢气可以减少焦炭量。然而，关于这些共喂入气体在非Pt催化剂上烷烃DH反应中的催化作用，很少有系统讨论的报告。为了进一步提高烷烃DH反应的单程产率，可以从产物混合物中去除氢气，通过使用Pd或沸石基膜反应器，使平衡向烯烃生产转移。然而，氢气作为焦炭抑制剂的作用被削弱，焦化问题和催化剂稳定性仍然是一个挑战。另一个与金属或金属氧化物催化烷烃DH过程的稳定性相关的关键问题是，在反应和再生处理过程中，金属或离子活性位点的动态结构稳定性。虽然SMSI效应可以有效地稳定DH反应中高反应温度和还原气氛下的活性位点，但过强的相互作用会导致活性金属嵌入到次表面、晶格层或框架中，降低可及性，甚至降低内在活性。这导致初始反应阶段相对较长的诱导期，以完成这些活性位点的预激活，这并不理想，因为它降低了原料气体和能量的效率，并增加了获得真实的结构-活性关系和提出令人信服的机制的难度。金属、促进剂和支撑之间的适度相互作用对于DH催化剂的设计至关重要，需要开发有效的预处理程序。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
