<quotes>

[1] "In this review, we outline the progress of these dehydrogenation catalysts that have been mainly developed in the past five years."
[2] "For different classes of the most-promising catalysts in the selective dehydrogenation of ethane-to-ethylene and propane-to-propylene, their syntheses, structural information, catalytic properties and mechanisms are comparatively summarized."
[3] "The synthesis parameters influence the metal particle size for the as-obtained Pt-based catalysts."
[4] "The atomically precise single-atom (SA) and single-atom alloy (SAA) catalysts have become one kind of the most active new frontiers in the heterogeneous catalysis."
[5] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[6] "A subnanometric PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[7] "The preparation strategy has been reported for the zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluter catalysts with high stability."
[8] "The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by the nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method."
[9] "The encapsulation of PtSn clusters with ca. 1 nm size can be in situ encapsulated inside the high-silica ZSM-5 zeolites through a rapid one-pot synthesis procedure."
[10] "The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows a superior catalytic performance than the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610 C."
[11] "The surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of the mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth element."
[12] "The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto the dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks."
[13] "The grafting of Pt(COD)Me2 and following reductive treatment in H2 result in the homogeneous dispersion of PtSn alloy nanoclusters at the surface of Sn-beta zeolites."
[14] "The nanocarbon-based materials are rarely reported to serve as the supports of Pt sites though they themselves are a group of important catalysts for the alkane DH reactions due to their metallic or semimetallic nature or the defect roles."
[15] "The ball milled hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) nanosheets with abundant fault edge B-O defects can properly modify the geometric and electronic states and catalytic properties of localized Pt/Cu nanoclusters through strong bonding interactions."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Recent progress in heterogeneous metal and metal oxide catalysts for direct dehydrogenation of ethane and propane has been outlined in this review, focusing on the past five years.
2.Syntheses, structural information, catalytic properties, and mechanisms of promising catalysts for selective dehydrogenation of ethane-to-ethylene and propane-to-propylene have been summarized.
3.Synthesis parameters influence the metal particle size of Pt-based catalysts.
4.Atomically precise single-atom (SA) and single-atom alloy (SAA) catalysts have become active frontiers in heterogeneous catalysis.
5.A subnanometric PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size was prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
6.A subnanometric PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size was prepared by a similar SOMC strategy.
7.A preparation strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability has been reported.
8.Ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters were encapsulated by nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites using a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method.
9.PtSn clusters with ca. 1 nm size could be in situ encapsulated inside high-silica ZSM-5 zeolites through a rapid one-pot synthesis procedure.
10.A bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 showed superior catalytic performance in the PDH reaction at 610 C compared to monometallic Pt.
11.Surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites could induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth elements.
12.Grafting of tributyltin hydride onto dealuminated beta zeolites produced the formation of Sn single-sites located in the frameworks.
13.Grafting of Pt(COD)Me2 and subsequent reductive treatment in H2 resulted in the homogeneous dispersion of PtSn alloy nanoclusters at the surface of Sn-beta zeolites.
14.Nanocarbon-based materials, due to their metallic or semimetallic nature or defect roles, have rarely been reported as supports for Pt sites.
15.Ball milled hexagonal boron nitride (h-BN) nanosheets with abundant fault edge B-O defects could modify the geometric and electronic states and catalytic properties of localized Pt/Cu nanoclusters through strong bonding interactions.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.最近在直接脱氢的乙烷和丙烷的异质金属和金属氧化物催化剂方面的进展已在本综述中概述，重点在过去五年。
2.对乙烷至乙烯和丙烷至丙烯的有选择性脱氢的最有希望的催化剂的合成，结构信息，催化性质和机制进行了总结。
3.合成参数影响获得的Pt基催化剂的金属颗粒大小。
4.原子精确的单原子（SA）和单原子合金（SAA）催化剂已成为异质催化中最活跃的前沿之一。
5.通过类似的表面有机金属化学（SOMC）策略制备了具有0.8 nm簇大小的亚纳米PtZn / SiO2催化剂。
6.通过类似的SOMC策略制备了具有0.8 nm簇大小的亚纳米PtZn / SiO2催化剂。
7.已报告了一种用于具有高稳定性的沸石限制的Pt单原子和纳米簇催化剂的制备策略。
8.通过配体保护的直接氢还原方法，将超小的PtZn合金纳米簇封装在纳米尺寸的MFI结构的silicalite-1沸石中。
9.通过快速的一锅合成程序，PtSn簇与ca.1 nm大小可以原位封装在高硅ZSM-5沸石中。
10.封装在silicalite-1中的二金属PtCu合金纳米粒子在610 C的PDH反应中表现出优于单金属Pt的优越催化性能。
11.介孔MFI型脱镓沸石的孔壁上的表面框架缺陷的硅醇巢可以诱导Pt和稀土元素的间金属的形成。
12.将三丁基锡氢化物（Bu3SnH）接枝到脱铝的β沸石上产生了位于框架中的Sn单站点的形成。
13.将Pt（COD）Me2的接枝和随后在H2中的还原处理导致Sn-beta沸石表面上PtSn合金纳米簇的均匀分散。
14.由于其金属或半金属性质或缺陷作用，很少报告碳纳米材料作为Pt站点的支撑。
15.通过强大的键合相互作用，球磨六方氮化硼（h-BN）纳米片与丰富的故障边缘B-O缺陷可以适当修改局部Pt / Cu纳米簇的几何和电子状态和催化性质。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
