<quotes>

[1] "In this review, we outline the progress of these dehydrogenation catalysts that have been mainly developed in the past five years."
[2] "For different classes of the most-promising catalysts in the selective dehydrogenation of ethane-to-ethylene and propane-to-propylene, their syntheses, structural information, catalytic properties and mechanisms are comparatively summarized."
[3] "The synthesis parameters influence the metal particle size for the as-obtained Pt-based catalysts."
[4] "The atomically precise single-atom (SA) and single-atom alloy (SAA) catalysts have become one kind of the most active new frontiers in the heterogeneous catalysis."
[5] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[6] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[7] "A preparation strategy has been reported for the zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluter catalysts with high stability, which is a transformation process from the two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite into the three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite."
[8] "The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by the nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method."
[9] "The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows a superior catalytic performance than the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610 C."
[10] "The surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of the mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth element, e.g., PtLa, PtCe and PtY."
[11] "The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto the dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks."
[12] "The PtSn catalyst in the minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays a superior catalytic PDH performance than the catalysts supported on the large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25.7 μm)."
[13] "The doping modification of the M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe and In) zeolites shows profound impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity and surface content of Pt for the supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts."
[14] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[15] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[16] "A preparation strategy has been reported for the zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluter catalysts with high stability, which is a transformation process from the two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite into the three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite."
[17] "The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by the nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method."
[18] "The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows a superior catalytic performance than the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610 C."
[19] "The surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of the mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth element, e.g., PtLa, PtCe and PtY."
[20] "The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto the dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks."
[21] "The PtSn catalyst in the minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays a superior catalytic PDH performance than the catalysts supported on the large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25.7 μm)."
[22] "The doping modification of the M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe and In) zeolites shows profound impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity and surface content of Pt for the supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts."
[23] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[24] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[25] "A preparation strategy has been reported for the zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluter catalysts with high stability, which is a transformation process from the two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite into the three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite."
[26] "The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by the nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method."
[27] "The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows a superior catalytic performance than the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610 C."
[28] "The surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of the mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth element, e.g., PtLa, PtCe and PtY."
[29] "The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto the dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks."
[30] "The PtSn catalyst in the minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays a superior catalytic PDH performance than the catalysts supported on the large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25.7 μm)."
[31] "The doping modification of the M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe and In) zeolites shows profound impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity and surface content of Pt for the supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts."
[32] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[33] "The synthesis of the PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar SOMC strategy."
[34] "A preparation strategy has been reported for the zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluter catalysts with high stability, which is a transformation process from the two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite into the three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite."
[35] "The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by the nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method."
[36] "The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows a superior catalytic performance than the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610 C."
[37] "The surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of the mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth element, e.g., PtLa, PtCe and PtY."
[38] "The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto the dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks."
[39] "The PtSn catalyst in the minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays a superior catalytic PDH performance than the catalysts supported on the large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25.7 μm)."
[40] "The doping modification of the M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe and In) zeolites shows profound impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity and surface content of Pt for the supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.Recent progress in heterogeneous metal and metal oxide catalysts for direct dehydrogenation of ethane and propane has been outlined in this review, focusing on the past five years.
2.The syntheses, structural information, catalytic properties, and mechanisms of the most-promising catalysts for selective dehydrogenation of ethane-to-ethylene and propane-to-propylene have been summarized.
3.Synthesis parameters influence the metal particle size for the obtained Pt-based catalysts.
4.Atomically precise single-atom (SA) and single-atom alloy (SAA) catalysts have become a significant frontier in heterogeneous catalysis.
5.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
6.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
7.A preparation strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability has been reported, involving the transformation from a two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite to a three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite.
8.The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method.
9.The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows superior catalytic performance compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610°C.
10.Surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth elements, such as PtLa, PtCe, and PtY.
11.The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks.
12.The PtSn catalyst in minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays superior catalytic PDH performance compared to catalysts supported on large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25-7 μm).
13.Doping modification of M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe, and In) zeolites has significant impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity, and surface content of Pt for supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts.
14.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
15.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
16.A preparation strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability has been reported, involving the transformation from a two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite to a three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite.
17.The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method.
18.The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows superior catalytic performance compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610°C.
19.Surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth elements, such as PtLa, PtCe, and PtY.
20.The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks.
21.The PtSn catalyst in minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays superior catalytic PDH performance compared to catalysts supported on large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25-7 μm).
22.Doping modification of M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe, and In) zeolites has significant impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity, and surface content of Pt for supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts.
23.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
24.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
25.A preparation strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability has been reported, involving the transformation from a two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite to a three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite.
26.The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method.
27.The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows superior catalytic performance compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610°C.
28.Surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth elements, such as PtLa, PtCe, and PtY.
29.The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks.
30.The PtSn catalyst in minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays superior catalytic PDH performance compared to catalysts supported on large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25-7 μm).
31.Doping modification of M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe, and In) zeolites has significant impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity, and surface content of Pt for supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts.
32.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
33.The PtZn/SiO2 catalyst with 0.8 nm cluster size is prepared by a similar surface organometallic chemistry (SOMC) strategy.
34.A preparation strategy for zeolite-confined Pt single-atom and nanocluster catalysts with high stability has been reported, involving the transformation from a two-dimensional ITQ-1 zeolite to a three-dimensional MCM-22 zeolite.
35.The encapsulation of ultrasmall PtZn alloy nanoclusters by nanosized MFI-structure silicalite-1 zeolites is achieved by a ligand-protected direct hydrogen reduction method.
36.The bimetallic PtCu alloy nanoparticle encapsulated in silicalite-1 shows superior catalytic performance compared to the monometallic Pt catalyst in the PDH reaction at 610°C.
37.Surface framework defects of silanol nests on the pore walls of mesoporous MFI-type degallated zeolites can induce the formation of intermetals of Pt and rare-earth elements, such as PtLa, PtCe, and PtY.
38.The grafting of tributyltin hydride (Bu3SnH) onto dealuminated beta zeolites produces the formation of the Sn single-site located in the frameworks.
39.The PtSn catalyst in minimal particle size TS-1 zeolites (100 nm) displays superior catalytic PDH performance compared to catalysts supported on large-size TS-1 zeolites (0.25-7 μm).
40.Doping modification of M-silicalite-1 (M = Mg, Al, Fe, and In) zeolites has significant impacts on pore structure, reducibility, acidity, and surface content of Pt for supported bimetallic PtSn catalysts.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.最近五年,在直接脱氢的乙烷和丙烷的异质金属和金属氧化物催化剂方面取得了进展。
2.对乙烷至乙烯和丙烷至丙烯的最有希望的催化剂的合成,结构信息,催化性质和机制进行了总结。
3.合成参数影响获得的Pt基催化剂的金属粒度。
4.原子精确的单原子(SA)和单原子合金(SAA)催化剂已成为异质催化中最活跃的前沿之一。
5.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
6.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
7.已经报道了一种制备具有高稳定性的沸石限制的Pt单原子和纳米簇催化剂的制备策略,涉及从二维ITQ-1沸石到三维MCM-22沸石的转变。
8.通过受保护的直接氢还原方法,将超小的PtZn合金纳米簇封装在纳米尺寸的MFI结构的硅酸盐沸石中。
9.封装在硅酸盐沸石中的二元PtCu合金纳米粒子在610°C的PDH反应中表现出比单金属Pt催化剂更优异的催化性能。
10.在介孔MFI型脱镓沸石的孔壁上的表面框架缺陷可以诱导Pt和稀土元素(例如PtLa,PtCe和PtY)的间金属的形成。
11.将三丁基锡氢化物(Bu3SnH)嫁接到脱铝β沸石上,在框架中形成Sn单点。
12.在最小粒度的TS-1沸石(100 nm)中的PtSn催化剂比在大尺寸TS-1沸石(0.25-7 μm)上支撑的催化剂具有更优异的催化PDH性能。
13.对M-silicalite-1(M = Mg,Al,Fe和In)沸石的掺杂改性对孔结构,还原性,酸度和Pt的表面含量有重大影响,用于支撑的二元PtSn催化剂。
14.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
15.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
16.已经报道了一种制备具有高稳定性的沸石限制的Pt单原子和纳米簇催化剂的制备策略,涉及从二维ITQ-1沸石到三维MCM-22沸石的转变。
17.通过受保护的直接氢还原方法,将超小的PtZn合金纳米簇封装在纳米尺寸的MFI结构的硅酸盐沸石中。
18.封装在硅酸盐沸石中的二元PtCu合金纳米粒子在610°C的PDH反应中表现出比单金属Pt催化剂更优异的催化性能。
19.在介孔MFI型脱镓沸石的孔壁上的表面框架缺陷可以诱导Pt和稀土元素(例如PtLa,PtCe和PtY)的间金属的形成。
20.将三丁基锡氢化物(Bu3SnH)嫁接到脱铝β沸石上,在框架中形成Sn单点。
21.在最小粒度的TS-1沸石(100 nm)中的PtSn催化剂比在大尺寸TS-1沸石(0.25-7 μm)上支撑的催化剂具有更优异的催化PDH性能。
22.对M-silicalite-1(M = Mg,Al,Fe和In)沸石的掺杂改性对孔结构,还原性,酸度和Pt的表面含量有重大影响,用于支撑的二元PtSn催化剂。
23.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
24.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
25.已经报道了一种制备具有高稳定性的沸石限制的Pt单原子和纳米簇催化剂的制备策略,涉及从二维ITQ-1沸石到三维MCM-22沸石的转变。
26.通过受保护的直接氢还原方法,将超小的PtZn合金纳米簇封装在纳米尺寸的MFI结构的硅酸盐沸石中。
27.封装在硅酸盐沸石中的二元PtCu合金纳米粒子在610°C的PDH反应中表现出比单金属Pt催化剂更优异的催化性能。
28.在介孔MFI型脱镓沸石的孔壁上的表面框架缺陷可以诱导Pt和稀土元素(例如PtLa,PtCe和PtY)的间金属的形成。
29.将三丁基锡氢化物(Bu3SnH)嫁接到脱铝β沸石上,在框架中形成Sn单点。
30.在最小粒度的TS-1沸石(100 nm)中的PtSn催化剂比在大尺寸TS-1沸石(0.25-7 μm)上支撑的催化剂具有更优异的催化PDH性能。
31.对M-silicalite-1(M = Mg,Al,Fe和In)沸石的掺杂改性对孔结构,还原性,酸度和Pt的表面含量有重大影响,用于支撑的二元PtSn催化剂。
32.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
33.通过类似的表面有机金属化学(SOMC)策略制备了0.8 nm团簇尺寸的PtZn/SiO2催化剂。
34.已经报道了一种制备具有高稳定性的沸石限制的Pt单原子和纳米簇催化剂的制备策略,涉及从二维ITQ-1沸石到三维MCM-22沸石的转变。
35.通过受保护的直接氢还原方法,将超小的PtZn合金纳米簇封装在纳米尺寸的MFI结构的硅酸盐沸石中。
36.封装在硅酸盐沸石中的二元PtCu合金纳米粒子在610°C的PDH反应中表现出比单金属Pt催化剂更优异的催化性能。
37.在介孔MFI型脱镓沸石的孔壁上的表面框架缺陷可以诱导Pt和稀土元素(例如PtLa,PtCe和PtY)的间金属的形成。
38.将三丁基锡氢化物(Bu3SnH)嫁接到脱铝β沸石上,在框架中形成Sn单点。
39.在最小粒度的TS-1沸石(100 nm)中的PtSn催化剂比在大尺寸TS-1沸石(0.25-7 μm)上支撑的催化剂具有更优异的催化PDH性能。
40.对M-silicalite-1(M = Mg,Al,Fe和In)沸石的掺杂改性对孔结构,还原性,酸度和Pt的表面含量有重大影响,用于支撑的二元PtSn催化剂。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
