<quotes>

[1] "The two catalytic systems giving outstanding performance far beyond most of the proposed ones are those based either on NiO oxide [18], or mixed molybdates [913]."
[2] "The materials have been characterized and it has been proposed that the active phase corresponds to a Ni1xNbxO solid solution with 0 < x < 0.18 and Nb cations substituting either Ni cations and/or filling the cationic vacancies in the defective non- stoichiometric structure [2,3]."
[3] "The catalytic efficiency of these compounds in ethane ODH would thus be related to the presence at the surface of NiO of dispersed Ospecies in amount high enough to convert sufficiently ethane but low enough to avoid total oxidation."
[4] "The results clearly showed that Nb has two main effects at low and high content."
[5] "At low Nb content, up to 37%, the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease continuously,which is in agreement with a modification of the active sites both in nature and number."
[6] "The catalytic sites appear more active but less numerous and the rate of ethane conversion thus decrease."
[7] "In parallel the selectivity to ethylene strongly increases."
[8] "At higher Nb content, the apparent activation energy, selectivity to ethylene and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion remained almost constant."
[9] "The active sites are not modified anymore and since the specific surface area of the catalysts continues to increase,the conversion of ethane increases."
[10] "The best yields are consequently observed for the Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound."
[11] "Above 15% of Nb, the phase inactive NiNb2O6 phase is formed and the relative content in active phase starts to decrease."
[12] "The results obtained on NiO-OA catalysts show that oxalic acid introduced in the preparation medium has an effect on the texture of the NiO oxide with a decrease in the particle size and an increase in the specific surface area of the solids."
[13] "The decrease in rate of ethane conversion is high."
[14] "This decrease can only be explained by a reduction at least at the surface of the NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry i.e. of the relative concentration of Ni3+ and consequently of the amount of O."
[15] "The decrease in the number of the latter species leads to higher selectivity to ethylene."
[16] "The O2-TPD-MS experiments data may contribute to understand the nature of the active surface species."
[17] "As the strength of the adsorption bonding increases with the desorption temperature,  oxygen should be more labile than  oxygen."
[18] "Both upon oxalic acid and niobium additions, the  species, which were the minor in quantity, disappeared and the number  and  species strongly decreased."
[19] "It may be proposed that the selective oxygen species are of  type since contrarily to the  species, these species become more labile when less numerous."
[20] "After deactivation only new oxygen species were observed on the Nb/NiO compound; these high temperature species should not be involved in the reaction and correspond presumably to species strongly adsorbed on surface defects (dislocations, edges and cor- ners) which number may increase after surface transformations related to the deactivation."
[21] "The deactivation of these catalysts is rather low and is apparently not coupled with a decrease in selectivity although it could exist but to a small extent and be compensated by an increase related to the decrease in conversion."
[22] "This deactivation is not related to a decrease in specific surface area neither to the formation of coke at the surface."
[23] "It may be ascribed to the formation of the phase NiNb2O6, which can be evidenced in some catalysts after catalytic testing by X-ray diffrac- tion."
[24] "The deactivation can also be explained by a decrease in the oxygen over-stoichiometry of the active NiO phase."
[25] "When the surface oxygen over-stoichiometry of NiO was decreased to the state where all the surface Ospecies are isolated, a further decrease did not change the nature of the sites but simply decreased their number implying a decrease in activity without change in selectivity."
[26] "The deactivation process, which can be evidenced by Raman spectroscopy, was difficult to observe on the NiNbO catalysts since the deactivation after testing was moderate and the change in the spectra are within the experimental precision."
[27] "However the decrease in NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry was clearly evidenced by Raman spectroscopy in the Nb/NiO and NiO-OA-3/1 compounds that suffered from stronger deactivation."
[28] "The deactivation process may be explain by the fact that contrarily to what could be expected from O2 which tend to accept electrons, its adsorption at a surface with an excess of oxygen i.e. with O, is favored because the extrac- tion work from such surface is favored [32,35]."
[29] "Inversely when the surface oxygen over-stoichiometry decreases, the O2 adsorption is slowed down as well as the re-oxidation and the deactivation process is auto-catalyzed."
[30] "It is furthermore probable that the two pro- cesses could be linked to each other as the mobility of the surface species necessary to the formation of the phase NiNb2O6 should depend on the surface oxygen stoichiometry."

</quotes>

<EnglishVersionAnswer>

1.The two most outstanding catalytic systems for oxidative dehydrogenation reactions are those based on NiO oxide or mixed molybdates.
2.Ni1xNbxO solid solution with Nb cations substituting Ni cations and/or filling cationic vacancies in the defective non-stoichiometric structure is proposed as the active phase.
3.The catalytic efficiency is related to the presence of dispersed Ospecies at the surface of NiO in sufficient amounts to convert ethane but low enough to avoid total oxidation.
4.Nb has two main effects on the catalysts at low and high content.
5.At low Nb content, the apparent activation energy and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion decrease continuously, indicating a modification of the active sites in nature and number.
6.The catalytic sites become more active but less numerous, leading to a decrease in the rate of ethane conversion.
7.Parallel to this, the selectivity to ethylene strongly increases.
8.At higher Nb content, the apparent activation energy, selectivity to ethylene, and intrinsic rate of ethane conversion remain almost constant.
9.The active sites are not modified, and since the specific surface area of the catalysts continues to increase, the conversion of ethane increases.
10.The best yields are observed for the Ni0.85Nb0.15O compound.
11.Above 15% of Nb, the inactive NiNb2O6 phase is formed, and the relative content in active phase starts to decrease.
12.Oxalic acid introduced in the preparation medium affects the texture of the NiO oxide, decreasing particle size and increasing specific surface area.
13.The decrease in rate of ethane conversion is high.
14.This decrease can be explained by a reduction at least at the surface of the NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry, leading to a decrease in the relative concentration of Ni3+ and consequently of the amount of O.
15.The decrease in the number of Ospecies leads to higher selectivity to ethylene.
16.O2-TPD-MS experiments contribute to understanding the nature of the active surface species.
17.As the strength of the adsorption bonding increases with the desorption temperature, oxygen should be more labile than oxygen.
18.Upon oxalic acid and niobium additions, the species, which were the minor in quantity, disappeared, and the number of and species strongly decreased.
19.It is proposed that the selective oxygen species are of type since, contrarily to the species, these species become more labile when less numerous.
20.After deactivation, only new oxygen species were observed on the Nb/NiO compound, which should not be involved in the reaction and correspond to species strongly adsorbed on surface defects.
21.The deactivation of the catalysts is rather low and is not coupled with a decrease in selectivity, although it could exist but to a small extent and be compensated by an increase related to the decrease in conversion.
22.This deactivation is not related to a decrease in specific surface area or the formation of coke at the surface.
23.It may be ascribed to the formation of the phase NiNb2O6, which can be evidenced in some catalysts after catalytic testing by X-ray diffraction.
24.The deactivation can also be explained by a decrease in the oxygen over-stoichiometry of the active NiO phase.
25.When the surface oxygen over-stoichiometry of NiO was decreased to the state where all the surface Ospecies are isolated, a further decrease did not change the nature of the sites but simply decreased their number, implying a decrease in activity without a change in selectivity.
26.The deactivation process, which can be evidenced by Raman spectroscopy, was difficult to observe on the NiNbO catalysts since the deactivation after testing was moderate and the change in the spectra was within the experimental precision.
27.However, the decrease in NiO oxygen over-stoichiometry was clearly evidenced by Raman spectroscopy in the Nb/NiO and NiO-OA-3/1 compounds that suffered from stronger deactivation.
28.The deactivation process may be explained by the fact that, contrarily to what could be expected from O2, which tends to accept electrons, its adsorption at a surface with an excess of oxygen, i.e., with O, is favored because the extraction work from such a surface is favored.
29.Inversely, when the surface oxygen over-stoichiometry decreases, the O2 adsorption is slowed down, as well as the re-oxidation, and the deactivation process is auto-catalyzed.
30.It is furthermore probable that the two processes could be linked to each other as the mobility of the surface species necessary to the formation of the phase NiNb2O6 should depend on the surface oxygen stoichiometry.

</EnglishVersionAnswer>

<ChineseVersionAnswer>

1.在氧化脱氢反应中，基于NiO氧化物或混合钼酸盐的两种催化系统表现出远超大多数提出的系统的卓越性能。
2.提出活性相为Ni1xNbxO固溶体，其中Nb阳离子替代Ni阳离子和/或填充在缺陷的非化学计量结构中的阳离子空位。
3.这些化合物的催化效率与NiO表面存在分散的O物种有关，其数量足以充分转化乙烷，但又足够低以避免完全氧化。
4.Nb在催化剂中具有两种主要影响，分别在低含量和高含量时表现。
5.在低Nb含量下，表观活化能和乙烷转化的本征速率连续下降，这与活性位点的性质和数量的改变一致。
6.催化位点变得更加活跃但数量减少，导致乙烷转化率的降低。
7.同时，乙烯的选择性显著增加。
8.在较高Nb含量下，表观活化能、乙烯选择性和乙烷转化的本征速率几乎保持不变。
9.活性位点没有改变，由于催化剂的比表面积持续增加，乙烷的转化率增加。
10.最佳产率出现在Ni0.85Nb0.15O化合物中。
11.当Nb含量超过15%时，形成不活跃的NiNb2O6相，活性相的相对含量开始减少。
12.在制备介质中引入草酸影响NiO氧化物的纹理，减小颗粒尺寸并增加比表面积。
13.乙烷转化率的降低幅度很大。
14.这种降低可以解释为至少在NiO表面的氧过量减少，导致Ni3+的相对浓度降低，进而导致O的数量减少。
15.O物种数量的减少导致乙烯选择性的提高。
16.O2-TPD-MS实验有助于理解活性表面物种的性质。
17.随着吸附键合强度随脱附温度的增加而增加，氧气应该比氧气更不稳定。
18.在添加草酸和铌的情况下，物种，即数量较少的物种，消失，和物种的数量显著减少。
19.可以推测，选择性氧物种为类型，因为与物种相反，这些物种在数量减少时变得更加不稳定。
20.在Nb/NiO化合物中，失活后仅观察到新的氧物种，这些高温物种不应参与反应，而应对应于强烈吸附在表面缺陷（位错、边缘和角）上的物种，这些物种的数量可能在与失活相关的表面变化后增加。
21.这些催化剂的失活相对较低，似乎并未与选择性的降低相关联，尽管可能存在但程度很小，且可能被与转化率降低相关的增加所补偿。
22.这种失活与比表面积的降低或表面焦炭的形成无关。
23.它可能归因于NiNb2O6相的形成，这在一些催化剂经过催化测试后通过X射线衍射可以得到证实。
24.失活也可以通过活性NiO相的氧过量减少来解释。
25.当NiO的表面氧过量降低到所有表面O物种被隔离的状态时，进一步的降低没有改变位点的性质，只是减少了它们的数量，意味着活性降低而选择性不变。
26.失活过程，可以通过拉曼光谱证据，很难在NiNbO催化剂上观察到，因为测试后的失活是温和的，光谱的变化在实验精度范围内。
27.然而，在Nb/NiO和NiO-OA-3/1化合物中，失活更严重，NiO氧过量的降低通过拉曼光谱清晰地得到证实。
28.失活过程可能解释为，与O2倾向于接受电子相反，其在具有过量氧，即具有O的表面的吸附是受青睐的，因为从这种表面提取工作是受青睐的。
29.相反，当表面氧过量降低时，O2的吸附减慢，以及再氧化，失活过程是自催化的。
30.此外，两个过程可能相互关联，因为形成NiNb2O6相所需的表面物种的流动性应该取决于表面氧的化学计量。

</ChineseVersionAnswer>
